A Protagonist (ENFJ) is a person with the Extraverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Judging personality traits. These warm, forthright types love helping others, and they tend to have strong ideas and values. They back their perspective with the creative energy to achieve their goals.

Protagonists (ENFJs) feel called to serve a greater purpose in life. Thoughtful and idealistic, these personality types strive to have a positive impact on other people and the world around them. They rarely shy away from an opportunity to do the right thing, even when doing so is far from easy.Protagonists are born leaders, which explains why these personalities can be found among many notable politicians, coaches, and teachers. Their passion and charisma allow them to inspire others not just in their careers but in every arena of their lives, including their relationships. Few things bring Protagonists a deeper sense of joy and fulfillment than guiding friends and loved ones to grow into their best selves.

When the whole world is silent, even one voice becomes powerful.

Speaking Up for What’s Right
Protagonists tend to be vocal about their values, including authenticity and altruism. When something strikes them as unjust or wrong, they speak up. But they rarely come across as brash or pushy, as their sensitivity and insight guide them to speak in ways that resonate with others.

These personality types have an uncanny ability to pick up on people’s underlying motivations and beliefs. At times, they may not even understand how they come to grasp another person’s mind and heart so quickly. These flashes of insight can make Protagonists incredibly persuasive and inspiring communicators.

Changing people’s minds is no easy task – but if anyone can do it, it’s Protagonists.
Protagonists’ secret weapon is their purity of intent. Generally speaking, they are motivated by a sincere wish to do the right thing rather than a desire to manipulate or have power over other people. Even when they disagree with someone, Protagonists search for common ground. The result is that people with this personality type can communicate with an eloquence and sensitivity that are nearly impossible to ignore – particularly when they speak about matters that are close to their hearts.

Getting Involved
When Protagonists care about someone, they want to help solve that person’s problems – sometimes at any cost. The good news is that many people are grateful for Protagonists’ assistance and advice. After all, there’s a reason that these personalities have a reputation for helping others improve their lives.

Protagonists are genuine, caring people who talk the talk and walk the walk. Nothing makes them happier than motivating other people to do what’s right.
But getting involved in other people’s problems isn’t always a recipe for success. Protagonists tend to have a clear vision of what people can or should do in order to better themselves, but not everyone is ready to make those changes. If Protagonists push too hard, their loved ones may feel resentful or unfairly judged. And while this personality type is known for being insightful, even the wisest Protagonists may sometimes misread a situation or unwittingly give bad advice.

Leading the Way
People with this personality type are devoted altruists, ready to face slings and arrows in order to stand up for the people and ideas that they believe in. This strength of conviction bolsters Protagonists’ innate leadership skills, particularly their ability to guide people to work together in service of the greater good.

But their greatest gift might actually be leading by example. In their day-to-day lives, Protagonists reveal how seemingly ordinary situations can be handled with compassion, dedication, and care. For these personalities, even the smallest daily choices and actions – from how they spend their weekend to what they say to a coworker who is struggling – can become an opportunity to lead the way to a brighter future.Receptive – Protagonists have strong opinions, but they’re far from closed-minded. They recognize the importance of allowing others to express themselves fully. Even when Protagonists don’t agree with someone, they recognize that person’s right to voice their truth.
Reliable – Few things bother Protagonists more than the prospect of letting down a person or cause that they believe in. People with this personality type can be counted on to see their promises and responsibilities through – even when it’s difficult to do so.
Passionate – Protagonists are far from being boring do-gooders. These types brim with interests, and they take great pleasure in pursuing their hobbies – whether that’s hiking, cooking, dancing, growing houseplants, or something else entirely. As a result, they rarely find themselves at a loss for something interesting to do.
Altruistic – These personalities are known for harboring a deep desire to be a force for positive change. Protagonists genuinely believe that if they bring people together, they can do a world of good.
Charismatic – Determined and inspiring, Protagonists often find their way into leadership roles. Whether they’re captain of their softball team or a leader on the world stage, they rarely lose sight of their main goal: to be of service to others.Unrealistic – Many Protagonists put pressure on themselves to right every wrong that they encounter. But no matter how hard these personalities strive, it just isn’t realistic for them to solve all of the world’s problems. If they aren’t careful, they can spread themselves too thin – and be left unable to help anyone.
Overly Idealistic – Protagonists tend to have clear ideas about what’s right and what’s wrong. They often think that everyone shares these fundamental principles – or, at least, that everyone should share these principles. So it can come as a genuine shock to Protagonists when people violate their core values, such as truth or justice.
Condescending – People with this personality type enjoy teaching others, particularly about the causes and beliefs that matter so much to them. But, at times, Protagonists’ attempts to “enlighten” others may come across as patronizing – not the most effective strategy for persuading other people, unfortunately.
Intense – When it comes to self-improvement, Protagonists are rarely short on energy or determination. But they may not recognize that not everyone shares these qualities. At times, Protagonists may push others to make changes that they aren’t ready for – or simply aren’t interested in making in the first place.
Overly Empathetic – Compassion is among this personality type’s greatest strengths. But Protagonists have a tendency to take on other people’s problems as their own – a habit that can leave them emotionally and physically exhausted.What you have read so far is just an introduction to the complexities of the Protagonist (ENFJ) personality type. Along the way, you may have muttered to yourself, “Wow, this is so accurate, it’s a little creepy,” or “Finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked, “How do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to do?”

If you feel understood right now, it’s because you are. Years of research have given us fresh insights into the unique strengths and challenges of Protagonists like you. We understand your creativity, your passion, and your commitment to doing the right thing, but we also understand the dark side of your personality type: the nagging fear that you might not reach your full potential and make the most of your one wild and precious life.Protagonists’ gifts include idealism, determination, and the ability to envision a better future – but they don’t just want to hear what makes them great. Protagonists are committed to actually using these gifts to serve a greater purpose.
That’s why we’ve made it our mission to help Protagonists like you not only appreciate your gifts but also make the most of them. Learning about your personality type is fascinating, but there’s a deeper purpose to it, too – because self-understanding is what helps you ensure that you’re doing what you were put on this earth to do.

So here’s our question for you, Protagonist: Are you ready to take full advantage of your unique strengths – to unlock your true, exceptional potential? If so, your Premium Profile will give you new insights into your personality, your relationships, your career path, and your life’s mission. This is the journey of a lifetime – and you’ll find everything you need to get started by moving on to the next section.
The ENFJ personality type is Extraverted, iNtuitive, Feeling, and Judging, which means ENFJs are energized by time with others, focused on how they can help others grow, led by their deep empathy and altruism, and natural team builders. Expressive, social, and supportive, ENFJs are genuinely excited about life and eager to help leave the world in better shape than they found it. They see the best in people and thrive as teachers and mentors. However, in their desire to build and maintain their relationships, they can struggle with overcommitment, making impersonal, data-based decisions, and speaking up about their own needs.
ENFJ is an acronym used to describe one of the sixteen personality types created by Katharine Briggs and Isabel Myers. It stands for Extraverted, iNtuitive, Feeling, Judging. ENFJ indicates a person who is energized by time spent with others (Extraverted), who focuses on ideas and concepts rather than facts and details (iNtuitive), who makes decisions based on feelings and values (Feeling) and who prefers to be planned and organized rather than spontaneous and flexible (Judging). ENFJs are sometimes referred to as Teacher personalities because of their interest in helping others develop and grow
ENFJs are idealist organizers, driven to implement their vision of what is best for humanity. They often act as catalysts for human growth because of their ability to see potential in other people and their charisma in persuading others to their ideas. They are focused on values and vision, and are passionate about the possibilities for people.

ENFJs are typically energetic and driven, and often have a lot on their plates. They are tuned into the needs of others and acutely aware of human suffering; however, they also tend to be optimistic and forward-thinking, intuitively seeing opportunity for improvement. The ENFJ is ambitious, but their ambition is not self-serving: rather, they feel personally responsible for making the world a better place.
ENFJs are driven by a deep sense of altruism and empathy for other people. They have an intuitive sense of the emotions of others, and often act as an emotional barometer for the people around them. However, their compassion not reserved for the people close to them: they are often humanitarian in nature, and may feel genuine concern for the ills of the entire human race. They tend to personally experience the feelings of others, and feel compelled to act when they see people suffering.

ENFJs want close, supportive connections with others, and believe that cooperation is the best way to get things done. They like to be liked and are very sensitive to feedback, both positive and negative. They expect the best not just from themselves, but from others as well, and may find themselves disappointed when others are not as genuine in their intentions as the ENFJ. ENFJs work hard to maintain strong relationships, and strive to be valuable members of their families, groups, and communities.
ENFJs are natural teachers, often found organizing people to take part in some educational activity. They tend to take charge of a situation, and guide a group towards those activities and experiences which will help them learn and grow. They intuitively see the potential in people, and with charisma and warmth, they encourage others to pursue greater development of their strengths. They are typically dynamic and productive, and are often visibly energized when leading others to discover new knowledge. ENFJs are typically good communicators, talented at using words to connect with others. They are perceptive about people and enjoy talking about relationships. They often enjoy helping others solve personal problems and like to share their insights about people, their emotions, and their motivations. They are empathetic sometimes to the point of being overinvolved, and can become exhausted if they are surrounded by too much negative emotion.
Peacekeeping. ENFJs not only work to promote harmony and morale while deflecting potential conflicts, they are also deft in persuading and motivating others to get moving in the same direction. They see positive relationships as the sure path to fulfillment and are highly cooperative, promoting cohesion and even friendship within the workplace and beyond. 

Communication. One of the many keys to an ENFJ’s success is the ability to communicate proficiently across diverse media. They have a talent for making words out of ideas whether it is in the classroom or in a love letter. ENFJs love writing, talking and telling stories, and their audiences are often equally as enthusiastic to receive what they have to say. As comfortable in large crowds as small groups, they like to be the center of attention and thrive on the energy of good conversation, especially with people who are as passionate as they are. 

Persuasiveness. ENFJs are known for their powers of persuasion and are generally effective in getting people to do what they want them to do. But ENFJs are charitable; the motive is not often manipulation or personal gain, they simply want people to do more or better because it will benefit them or help them realize some potential. These personalities are likeable and trustworthy and, as a result, others are generally compelled to listen to and follow them. 

Leadership. ENFJs have a solid social circle and are likely to be the ones planning events and finding opportunities to get people together. Their leadership skills ensure that others quickly jump on board and are excited about it. Teaching and mentoring come as easily to them as breathing and talking, making ENFJs particularly skilled in endeavors that allow them to lead, train or educate. Their idealism helps them to very clearly and accurately see the potential in other people and entities, and their Judging element helps them to map out the path to get there.
Leap before looking. Passionate and headstrong, ENFJs tend to dive in head first without fully examining or investigating the endeavor in front of them, or fully considering what it will entail. Their Intuitive nature gets the best of them and they are quite sure they have it all figured out; they may not concern themselves with the necessary and important details. 

Overcommitment. Though they thrive on being a little overwhelmed, ENFJs can easily become over-committed because they are genuinely excited about life and all of the opportunities they see before them—they want to say “yes” as much as they can and they want to do it all. As a result, they may later have to pull out of commitments they might have examined more carefully before jumping in, and often end up starting and stopping many things without finishing. 

Struggle to make tough decisions. When making decisions, ENFJs can struggle with information that seems to lack a human element. Hard logic, impersonal reasoning and data-based conclusions can be difficult and even undesirable. While ENFJs may be viewed as compassionate, they may also be seen as unfair since they are likely to prioritize the needs of the individual above the whole, and to look more readily to the exceptions than the rules. 

Too selfless. Because ENFJs prioritize people and the needs of others, they may not be properly in touch with their own needs and can struggle, at times, to express them if they fear that doing so may create conflict or disunity. If they have not developed a strong sense of self they may fail to be authentic in their relationships. As ENFJs already tend toward loneliness, the sense that no one truly knows them can foment the sense of being alone and misunderstood. 
Popular hobbies for the ENFJ include organizing social events, reading, the arts, museums, storytelling, listening to music, writing, and gourmet cooking.