A Consul (ESFJ) is a person with the Extraverted, Observant, Feeling, and Judging personality traits. They are attentive and people-focused, and they enjoy taking part in their social community. Their achievements are guided by decisive values, and they willingly offer guidance to others.

Encourage, lift, and strengthen one another. For the positive energy spread to one will be felt by us all.For Consuls, life is sweetest when it’s shared with others. People with this personality type form the bedrock of many communities, opening their homes – and their hearts – to friends, loved ones, and neighbors.

This doesn’t mean that Consuls like everyone, or that they’re saints. But Consuls do believe in the power of hospitality and good manners, and they tend to feel a sense of duty to those around them. Generous and reliable, people with this personality type often take it upon themselves – in ways both large and small – to hold their families and their communities together.

Consuls have a talent for making the people in their lives feel supported, cared for, and secure.The Beauty of a Responsible Life
Consuls are altruists. They take seriously their responsibilities to give back, serve others, and do the right thing.

And Consuls believe that there is a clear right thing to do in nearly every situation. While some personality types adopt a more lenient, live-and-let-live attitude, Consuls may find it difficult not to judge when someone takes a path that strikes them as misguided. As a result, Consuls often struggle to accept it when someone – particularly someone they care about – disagrees with them.

Consuls have a clear moral compass – and it can be nothing short of baffling to them when other people’s actions don’t align with it.
With their definite views on right and wrong, Consuls tend to be on the opinionated side. But these opinions aren’t arbitrary – they’re often based on a deep respect for tradition. Consuls know that everything they do affects someone else, and they trust that established laws, protocols, and social norms will help them navigate their everyday lives in a way that is considerate and responsible toward others.

Building Relationships That Last
Supportive and outgoing, Consuls can always be spotted at a party – they’re the ones fluttering around making sure that everyone else is having a good time! But make no mistake: Consuls don’t just breeze through other people’s lives. Loyal to the core, they build lasting relationships, and they can be counted on to show up whenever a helping hand – or a listening ear – is needed.

Consuls rarely miss a birthday or holiday. Devoted to their relationships, they commit even the smallest details of their friends’ and loved ones’ lives to memory.
With their love of order and structure, Consuls prefer planned events to open-ended activities or spontaneous get-togethers – and they’re happy to host in order to ensure that everything goes smoothly. People with this personality type put a great deal of energy into making other people feel special and celebrated, and they may take it personally when someone doesn’t seem to appreciate their efforts.

For many people with the Consul personality type, one of life’s greatest challenges is accepting that they can’t control anyone else’s thoughts or behavior – not even those who are nearest and dearest to them. Fortunately, Consuls can find peace and fulfillment by focusing on what they do best: setting an example of care, consideration, and responsibility – and bringing people together in the process.Strong Practical Skills – Consuls are excellent managers of day-to-day tasks and routine maintenance, enjoying making sure that those who are close to them are well cared for.
Strong Sense of Duty – People with the Consul personality type have a strong sense of responsibility and strive to meet their obligations, though this may sometimes be more from a sense of social expectations than intrinsic drive.
Very Loyal – Valuing stability and security very highly, Consuls are eager to preserve the status quo, which makes them extremely loyal and trustworthy partners and employees. Consuls are true pillars of any groups they belong to – whether it is their family or a community club, people with this personality type can always be relied upon.
Sensitive and Warm – Helping to ensure that stability, Consul personalities seek harmony and care deeply about other people’s feelings, being careful not to offend or hurt anybody. Consuls are strong team players, and win-win situations are the stuff smiles are made of.
Good at Connecting with Others – These qualities come together to make Consuls social, comfortable and well-liked. Consul personalities have a strong need to “belong”, and have no problem with small talk or following social cues in order to help them take an active role in their communities.Worried about Their Social Status – These Strengths are related to a chief Weakness: Consuls’ preoccupation with social status and influence, which affects many decisions they make, potentially limiting their creativity and open-mindedness.
Inflexible – Consuls place a lot of importance on what is socially acceptable, and can be very cautious, even critical of anything unconventional or outside the mainstream. People with this personality type may also sometimes push their own beliefs too hard in an effort to establish them as mainstream.
Reluctant to Innovate or Improvise – Just as they can be critical of others’ “unusual” behavior, Consuls may also be unwilling to step out of their own comfort zones, usually for fear of being (or just appearing) different.
Vulnerable to Criticism – It can be especially challenging to change these tendencies because Consuls are so conflict-averse. Consul personalities can become very defensive and hurt if someone, especially a person close to them, criticizes their habits, beliefs or traditions.
Often Too Needy – Consuls need to hear and see a great deal of appreciation. If their efforts go unnoticed, people with the Consul personality type may start fishing for compliments, in an attempt to get reassurance of how much they are valued.
Too Selfless – The other side of this is that Consuls sometimes try to establish their value with doting attention, something that can quickly overwhelm those who don’t need it, making it ultimately unwelcome. Furthermore, Consuls often neglect their own needs in the process.Few personality types are as practical and caring as Consuls. Known for their social and administrative skills, Consuls are good at creating and maintaining a secure, stable and friendly environment for themselves and their loved ones. Consuls’ dedication is invaluable in many areas, including their own personal growth.

Yet Consuls can be easily tripped up in areas where their kindness and practical approach are more of a liability than an asset. Whether it is finding (or keeping) a partner, learning to relax or improvise, reaching dazzling heights on the career ladder, or managing their workload, Consuls need to put in a conscious effort to develop their weaker traits and additional skills.What you have read so far is just an introduction into the complex concept that is the Consul personality type. You may have muttered to yourself, “wow, this is so accurate it’s a little creepy” or “finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked “how do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to?”

This is not a trick. You felt understood because you were. We’ve studied how Consuls think and what they need to reach their full potential. And no, we did not spy on you – many of the challenges you’ve faced and will face in the future have been overcome by other Consuls. You simply need to learn how they succeeded.

But in order to do that, you need to have a plan, a personal roadmap. The best car in the world will not take you to the right place if you do not know where you want to go. We have told you how Consuls tend to behave in certain circumstances and what their key strengths and weaknesses are. Now we need to go much deeper into your personality type and answer “why?”, “how?” and “what if?”

This knowledge is only the beginning of a lifelong journey. Are you ready to learn why Consuls act in the way they do? What motivates and inspires you? What you are afraid of and what you secretly dream about? How you can unlock your true, exceptional potential?

Our premium profiles provide a roadmap towards a happier, more successful, and more versatile YOU! They are not for everyone though – you need to be willing and able to challenge yourself, to go beyond the obvious, to imagine and follow your own path instead of just going with the flow. If you want to take the reins into your own hands, we are here to help you.
The ESFJ personality type is Extraverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Judging, which means they are energized by time with others, are practical and detail oriented, make decisions based on a strict moral code that is often black and white, and value structure so they can be organized and productive. Conscientious, sensitive, and energetic, ESFJs prioritize their relationships, using their effort and resources to care for others. ESFJs are enthusiastic communicators who make great motivational team leaders. While they have strong interpersonal skills, ESFJs can struggle to overcome fixed ideas, accept criticism, and be flexible.
ESFJ is an acronym used to describe one of the sixteen personality types created by Katharine Briggs and Isabel Myers. It stands for Extraverted, Sensing, Feeling, Judging. ESFJ indicates a person who is energized by time spent with others (Extraverted), who focuses on facts and details rather than ideas and concepts (Sensing), who makes decisions based on feelings and values (Feeling) and who prefers to be planned and organized rather than spontaneous and flexible (Judging). ESFJs are sometimes referred to as Provider personalities because of their interest in taking care of others in practical ways.
ESFJs are conscientious helpers, sensitive to the needs of others and energetically dedicated to their responsibilities. They are highly attuned to their emotional environment and attentive to both the feelings of others and the perception others have of them. ESFJs like a sense of harmony and cooperation around them, and are eager to please and provide.

ESFJs value loyalty and tradition, and usually make their family and friends their top priority. They are generous with their time, effort, and emotions. They often take on the concerns of others as if they were their own, and will attempt to put their significant organizational talents to use to bring order to other people's lives.
ESFJs act according to a strict moral code, and look for others to do the same. They often see things in terms of black and white, right and wrong, and they are typically not shy about sharing their evaluations of others' behavior. ESFJs seek harmony and cooperation, and feel this is best accomplished when everyone follows the same set of rules. They have a sense of order in the way people relate to one another, and often take on roles that allow them to help enforce that social order.

ESFJs feel a sense of personal responsibility for other people's needs, and are usually eager to get involved and help out. They tend to be serious and practical, dutifully putting business before pleasure—especially the business of caring for others. They typically enjoy routine and often keep a regular schedule that allows them to be organized and productive.
ESFJs may often be found playing host or hostess. They tend to take on the role of organizer without hesitation, and want to be sure that everyone is taken care of. Roles such as committee leader, event planner, and church volunteer suit the ESFJ well. They are typically engaged with their communities and work hard to do their part in maintaining the social order. ESFJs are interested in other people and like to know the details of their lives. Gossip is a favorite pasttime of many ESFJs; they love to share stories about the people around them.

ESFJs have a clear moral code that guides their behavior and their expectations from others. They often have strong opinions about how people should behave and the proper thing to do. Manners and other codes of social interaction are often of great interest to ESFJs. They may think in terms of black and white, right and wrong. They can be judgmental of others who they do not think are acting appropriately, but they have the best of intentions: they simply want everyone to follow the rules so they can all get along. The ESFJ wants things to be all right with the people around them, and may become very involved with others’ problems and concerns.
Popular leisure activities for ESFJs include volunteering in community, charity, or religious organizations; celebrating holidays and family traditions; cooking; entertaining; and social sports.
Strong practical skills. Good intentions are wonderful, but they don’t mean much unless they’re backed up by a well- organized plan of action. ESFJs understand how to accomplish tasks better than most, and that is why the to-do lists they make are seldom left with any unchecked items. They are so conscientious and detail-oriented they can’t stomach the thought of leaving an important job or project only half-finished, and they would feel embarrassed if they gave anything less than their very best effort in each and every instance.

Warm and sensitive. With grand and gentle hearts, ESFJs form lasting emotional bonds and make strong empathic connections with others. When someone needs guidance, ESFJs will be by their side, supporting them with advice that is concrete, sensible and guaranteed to produce good results. No problem is too big or too small to arouse the interest of ESFJs, and regardless of what a friend, loved one or acquaintance is going through, ESFJs will do their best to provide impactful assistance. 

Loyal and dutiful. ESFJs are traditionalists right down to the core. They are concerned with protecting the best parts of the existing social order against the forces of “progress”, and always honor the wisdom of their elders, always put the interests of others before their own. Doing the right thing every time doesn’t make life easy, but ESFJs are incapable of following the path of least resistance when people need help or moral issues are involved. 

Stand up and be counted. ESFJs aren’t intimidated by challenges and they aren’t willing to just sit by and wait for others to take the lead. Inside their social and community circles, ESFJs are always willing to step up and lend a helping hand; in support of great causes they will organize, volunteer, recruit, fundraise, run for election, put up flyers, go door-to-door or give speeches on street corners— sometimes all in the same week! 
Rigid and judgmental. While they are tolerant in general, ESFJs don’t approach the world with a completely open mind. Their value systems are defined by fixed ideas about right and wrong, good and bad, smart and foolish, and they tend to categorize everything they see according to such dualistic concepts. “Live and let live” is not a concept that appeals to ESFJs, who are not shy about judging the behavior and character of others based on brief initial impressions. 

Reluctant to improvise. ESFJs have a lot or respect for rules, laws, regulations and traditional codes of conduct—a world without shoulds and shouldn’ts and dos and don’ts would be unsustainable and chaotic to the traditionalist ESFJ. But in some instances, outside the box thinking may be required. ESFJs can be slow to recognize this reality, making them rigid and unyielding when a bit more openness to change is called for. 

Neediness. ESFJs have a strong need to be noticed, acknowledged and appreciated, and they want others to see them as helpful, trustworthy and virtuous. This means that their sense of self-worth will rise or fall based on the amount of praise or criticism they get from others. ESFJs aren’t worried about what other people will think every minute of the day, but they do take rejection very personally and have a hard time getting over any perceived slight. 

Lack of creative thinking. Too often, ESFJs are so focused on the here and now they miss opportunities for growth and improvement that are staring them right in the face. A long view that embraces creative inspirations, abstract ideas and big picture thinking can allow them to reach new levels of understanding, but taking their intellects in this direction does not come naturally to ESFJs. A failure to respect the benefits of creative power of the imagination can keep ESFJs stuck in patterns of thought and behavior that have long outlived their usefulness.