An Entertainer (ESFP) is a person with the Extraverted, Observant, Feeling, and Prospecting personality traits. These people love vibrant experiences, engaging in life eagerly and taking pleasure in discovering the unknown. They can be very social, often encouraging others into shared activities.

Live for each second without hesitation.If anyone is to be found spontaneously breaking into song and dance, it is the Entertainer personality type. Entertainers get caught up in the excitement of the moment, and want everyone else to feel that way, too. No other personality type is as generous with their time and energy as Entertainers when it comes to encouraging others, and no other personality type does it with such irresistible style.Living with Passion
Entertainers love the spotlight, and all the world’s a stage. Many famous people with the Entertainer personality type are indeed actors, but they love putting on a show for their friends too, chatting with a unique and earthy wit, soaking up attention and making every outing feel a bit like a party. Utterly social, Entertainers enjoy the simplest things, and there’s no greater joy for them than just having fun with a good group of friends.

It’s not just talk either – Entertainers have the strongest aesthetic sense of any personality type. From grooming and outfits to a well-appointed home, Entertainer personalities have an eye for fashion. Knowing what’s attractive the moment they see it, Entertainers aren’t afraid to change their surroundings to reflect their personal style. Entertainers are naturally curious, exploring new designs and styles with ease.

Though it may not always seem like it, Entertainers know that it’s not all about them – they are observant, and very sensitive to others’ emotions. People with this personality type are often the first to help someone talk out a challenging problem, happily providing emotional support and practical advice. However, if the problem is about them, Entertainers are more likely to avoid a conflict altogether than to address it head-on. Entertainers usually love a little drama and passion, but not so much when they are the focus of the criticisms it can bring.

A Spontaneous Spirit
The biggest challenge Entertainers face is that they are often so focused on immediate pleasures that they neglect the duties and responsibilities that make those luxuries possible. Complex analysis, repetitive tasks, and matching statistics to real consequences are not easy activities for Entertainers. They’d rather rely on luck or opportunity, or simply ask for help from their extensive circle of friends. It is important for Entertainers to challenge themselves to keep track of long-term things like their retirement plans or sugar intake – there won’t always be someone else around who can help to keep an eye on these things.

Entertainers recognize value and quality, which on its own is a fine trait. In combination with their tendency to be poor planners though, this can cause them to live beyond their means, and credit cards are especially dangerous. More focused on leaping at opportunities than in planning out long-term goals, Entertainers may find that their inattentiveness has made some activities unaffordable.

There’s nothing that makes Entertainers feel quite as unhappy as realizing that they are boxed in by circumstance, unable to join their friends.
Entertainers are welcome wherever there’s a need for laughter, playfulness, and a volunteer to try something new and fun – and there’s no greater joy for Entertainer personalities than to bring everyone else along for the ride. Entertainers can chat for hours, sometimes about anything but the topic they meant to talk about, and share their loved ones’ emotions through good times and bad. If they can just remember to keep their ducks in a row, they’ll always be ready to dive into all the new and exciting things the world has to offer, friends in tow.Bold – Entertainers aren’t known for holding back. Wanting to experience everything there is to experience, people with the Entertainer personality type don’t mind stepping out of their comfort zones when no one else is willing.
Original – Traditions and expectations are secondary to Entertainers, if a consideration at all. Entertainer personalities love to experiment with new styles, and constantly find new ways to stick out in the crowd.
Aesthetics and Showmanship – Not stopping at mere outfits, Entertainers inject artistic creativity into their words and actions, too. Every day is a performance, and Entertainers love to put on a show.
Practical – To Entertainers, the world is meant to be felt and experienced. Truth is stranger than fiction, and Entertainers prefer to see and do than to wax philosophical about “what-ifs”.
Observant – With all this focus on the here and now, on doing and acting, it makes sense that Entertainers are naturals when it comes to noticing real, tangible things and changes.
Excellent People Skills – More so than things though, Entertainers love to pay attention to people. They are talkative, witty, and almost never run out of things to discuss. For people with this personality type, happiness and satisfaction stem from the time they spend with the people they enjoy being with.Sensitive – Entertainers (especially Turbulent ones) are strongly emotional, and very vulnerable to criticism – they can feel like they’ve been backed into a corner, sometimes reacting badly. This is probably Entertainers’ greatest weakness, because it makes it so hard to address any other weaknesses brought to light.
Conflict-Averse – Entertainers sometimes ignore and avoid conflict entirely. They tend to say and do what’s needed to get out of such situations, then move on to something more fun.
Easily Bored – Without constant excitement, Entertainers find ways to create it themselves. Risky behavior, self-indulgence, and the pleasures of the moment over long-term plans are all things Entertainers get into a little too often.
Poor Long-Term Planners – In fact, Entertainer personalities rarely make detailed plans for the future. To them, things come as they come, and they rarely bother with taking the time to lay out steps and consequences, with the belief that they could change at any moment – even with things that can be planned.
Unfocused – Anything that requires long-term dedication and focus is a particular challenge for Entertainers. In academics, dense, unchanging subjects like Classic Literature are much more difficult than more dynamic, relatable subjects like psychology. The trick for Entertainers is to find day-to-day joy in broader goals, and to tough it out with those tedious things that must be done.Few personality types are as charming and attractive as Entertainers. Known for their ability to improvise and focus completely on the present, Entertainers are great at finding exciting new things to explore and experience. Entertainers’ energy, enthusiasm and down-to-earth attitude are invaluable in many areas, including their own personal growth.Yet Entertainers can be easily tripped up in situations where their focus on practical matters is more of a liability than an asset. Whether it is finding (or keeping) a partner, reaching dazzling heights on the career ladder, or learning to plan ahead, Entertainers need to put in a conscious effort to develop their weaker traits and additional skills.

What you have read so far is just an introduction into the complex concept that is the Entertainer personality type. You may have muttered to yourself, “wow, this is so accurate it’s a little creepy” or “finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked “how do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to?”

This is not a trick. You felt understood because you were. We’ve studied how Entertainers think and what they need to reach their full potential. And no, we did not spy on you – many of the challenges you’ve faced and will face in the future have been overcome by other Entertainers. You simply need to learn how they succeeded.

But in order to do that, you need to have a plan, a personal roadmap. The best car in the world will not take you to the right place if you do not know where you want to go. We have told you how Entertainers tend to behave in certain circumstances and what their key strengths and weaknesses are. Now we need to go much deeper into your personality type and answer “why?”, “how?” and “what if?”

This knowledge is only the beginning of a lifelong journey. Are you ready to learn why Entertainers act in the way they do? What motivates and inspires you? What you are afraid of and what you secretly dream about? How you can unlock your true, exceptional potential?

Our premium profiles provide a roadmap towards a happier, more successful, and more versatile YOU! They are not for everyone though – you need to be willing and able to challenge yourself, to go beyond the obvious, to imagine and follow your own path instead of just going with the flow. If you want to take the reins into your own hands, we are here to help you.
The ESFP personality type is Extraverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Perceiving, which means they are energized by time with others, practical and detail oriented, motivated by their empathetic and compassionate instincts, and more likely to live in the moment rather than plan ahead. Charming, engaging, and supportive, ESFPs love to be in the middle of the action, whether as the life of the party or by meeting the needs of others. ESFPs look on the bright side and do their best to live life to the fullest, but they can be easily bored, avoid conflict even when it's necessary, and struggle with long-term planning.
ESFP is an acronym used to describe one of the sixteen personality types created by Katharine Briggs and Isabel Myers. It stands for Extraverted, Sensing, Feeling, Perceiving. ESFP indicates a person who is energized by time spent with others (Extraverted), who focuses on facts and details rather than ideas and concepts (Sensing), who makes decisions based on feelings and values (Feeling) and who prefers to be spontaneous and flexible rather than planned and organized (Perceiving). ESFPs are sometimes referred to as Performer personalities because of their playful, energetic nature.
ESFPs are vivacious entertainers who charm and engage those around them. They are spontaneous, energetic, and fun-loving, and take pleasure in the things around them: food, clothes, nature, animals, and especially people.

ESFPs are typically warm and talkative and have a contagious enthusiasm for life. They like to be in the middle of the action and the center of attention. They have a playful, open sense of humor, and like to draw out other people and help them have a good time.
ESFPs live in the moment, enjoying what life has to offer. They are especially tuned into their senses and take pleasure in the sights, sounds, smells, and textures around them. ESFPs like to keep busy, filling their lives with hobbies, sports, activities, and friends. Because they'd rather live spontaneously than plan ahead, they can become overextended when there are too many exciting things to do. An ESFP hates nothing more than missing out on the fun.

Although they are characteristically fun-loving, ESFPs are also typically practical and down-to-earth. They are grounded in reality and are usually keenly aware of the facts and details in their environment, especially as they pertain to people. They are observant of others and their needs, and responsive in offering assistance. ESFPs enjoy helping other people, especially in practical, tangible ways.
ESFPs are often the life of the party, entertaining and engaging others with humor and enthusiasm. They notice whether other people are having fun, and do their best to create a good time for all. Typically at home in their physical environment, ESFPs may take the lead in getting everyone involved in some active diversion. ESFPs are generally friendly and likable, but can be hard to get close to; although they tend to be very open, they are reluctant to be serious or to talk about anything negative. ESFPs are tuned into their senses, and often gravitate towards pleasing colors and textures in their environments. They often carefully choose fabrics and decorations with which to surround themselves. This attention also often translates into their appearance; ESFPs are often dressed in sensuous fabrics or bright, dazzling colors. They are often up on the latest trends, and like to excite the people around them with new environments and experiences.
For more information: The Art of SpeedReading People
Popular hobbies for ESFPs include socializing, team sports, home improvement projects, cooking, entertaining, games, and dance. ESFPs love big parties and gatherings and are quick to join any group or activity that sounds like fun.ç
Showmanship. ESFPs have lively personalities which they use to liven up every room they occupy. Bringing smiles and enjoyment to others gives the ESFP greater satisfaction than anything else in the world. Being cheerful, entertaining and humorous comes naturally to ESFPs, and the people who know them best realize their interest in the happiness of others is sincere and motivated by empathetic and compassionate instincts.

Supportive. ESFPs do like to be the center of attention, but they also prize the spirit of cooperation and never try to hog the spotlight when asked to work on group projects. It is really the social give-and-take that ESFPs enjoy the most, and if they act as facilitators in cooperative situations it is only because their outgoing natures predispose them to take the lead. As teammates or partners, ESFPs will always listen to what everyone has to say, will never try to force their ideas on anyone. 

Positivity. ESFPs are the quintessential positive thinkers, firmly believing the bright side is the only one worth looking at. ESFPs see every minute of wasted time as a lost opportunity, and they can’t stand to throw away chances for fun, conversation, excitement or unique experience. Furthermore, they do a fantastic job of passing on their enthusiasm and hopefulness to their companions, and that is why some of the most admired self-help gurus and motivational speakers come from the ESFP ranks. 

Bold and practical. Because they refuse to live in the past or the future, or get distracted by dreams or fantasies about the way the world should be, ESFPs are high-quality practical workers who never sacrifice their determination to accomplish remarkable things in the present moment. They want desperately to help others, but they also want to see results from their efforts immediately and aren’t willing to be patient. ESFPs will put the pedal to the metal in a heartbeat if they see opportunities to make a constructive impact in the lives of the people they care about most. 
Avoid conflict. The one problem with “glass half full” types is that they will sometimes deny unpleasant truths or avoid uncomfortable situations if they feel it might cast a dark cloud. ESFPs hate buzzkills, and this makes them a bit squeamish about conflict, persistent social problems and a variety of other unfortunate circumstances that can’t be wished away or overcome with a cheerful attitude.  

Sensitive. It is ironic given their tendency to showmanship and outspokenness, but ESFPs are extremely sensitive and can be deeply hurt when others criticize their ideas, personalities or conduct. They have a tough time seeing such criticism as constructive, and they usually react with anger and resentment when they feel someone is questioning or attacking them. 

Easily bored. With a need for constant excitement, ESFPs find it hard to maintain their focus on the topic at hand; often demonstrating the sort of attention span normally seen only in kindergarten classrooms. This can make them appear flighty and unfocused. Life is not a non-stop party, and ESFPs do need to knuckle down if they are to turn their high energy into an accomplished goal. 

Poor long-term focus. When given the choice between theory and proven practice, ESFP will choose the latter every time. They distrust abstract concepts, future hypotheses and big picture projections and this makes them poor long-term planners. ESFPs aren’t as good at recognizing alternatives as they should be, and this can blind them to exciting possibilities for growth, evolution and constructive change. 
