An Executive (ESTJ) is someone with the Extraverted, Observant, Thinking, and Judging personality traits. They possess great fortitude, emphatically following their own sensible judgment. They often serve as a stabilizing force among others, able to offer solid direction amid adversity.

Good order is the foundation of all things.Executives are representatives of tradition and order, utilizing their understanding of what is right, wrong and socially acceptable to bring families and communities together. Embracing the values of honesty, dedication and dignity, people with the Executive personality type are valued for their clear advice and guidance, and they happily lead the way on difficult paths. Taking pride in bringing people together, Executives often take on roles as community organizers, working hard to bring everyone together in celebration of cherished local events, or in defense of the traditional values that hold families and communities together.Leading by Example
Demand for such leadership is high in democratic societies, and forming no less than 11% of the population, it’s no wonder that many of America’s presidents have been Executives. Strong believers in the rule of law and authority that must be earned, Executive personalities lead by example, demonstrating dedication and purposeful honesty, and an utter rejection of laziness and cheating, especially in work. If anyone declares hard, manual work to be an excellent way to build character, it is Executives.

Executives are aware of their surroundings and live in a world of clear, verifiable facts – the surety of their knowledge means that even against heavy resistance, they stick to their principles and push an unclouded vision of what is and is not acceptable. Their opinions aren’t just empty talk either, as Executives are more than willing to dive into the most challenging projects, improving action plans and sorting details along the way, making even the most complicated tasks seem easy and approachable.

However, Executives don’t work alone, and they expect their reliability and work ethic to be reciprocated – people with this personality type meet their promises, and if partners or subordinates jeopardize them through incompetence or laziness, or worse still, dishonesty, they do not hesitate to show their wrath. This can earn them a reputation for inflexibility, a trait shared by all Sentinel personalities, but it’s not because Executives are arbitrarily stubborn, but because they truly believe that these values are what make society work.

A Greater Responsibility
Executives are classic images of the model citizen: they help their neighbors, uphold the law, and try to make sure that everyone participates in the communities and organizations they hold so dear.
The main challenge for Executives is to recognize that not everyone follows the same path or contributes in the same way. A true leader recognizes the strength of the individual, as well as that of the group, and helps bring those individuals’ ideas to the table. That way, Executives really do have all the facts, and are able to lead the charge in directions that work for everyone.Dedicated – Seeing things to completion borders on an ethical obligation for Executives. Tasks aren’t simply abandoned because they’ve become difficult or boring – people with the Executive personality type take them up when they are the right thing to do, and they will be finished so long as they remain the right thing to do.
Strong-willed – A strong will makes this dedication possible, and Executives don’t give up their beliefs because of simple opposition. Executives defend their ideas and principles relentlessly, and must be proven clearly and conclusively wrong for their stance to budge.
Direct and Honest – Executives trust facts far more than abstract ideas or opinions. Straightforward statements and information are king, and Executive personalities return the honesty (whether it’s wanted or not).
Loyal, Patient and Reliable – Executives work to exemplify truthfulness and reliability, considering stability and security very important. When Executives say they’ll do something, they keep their word, making them very responsible members of their families, companies and communities.
Enjoy Creating Order – Chaos makes things unpredictable, and unpredictable things can’t be trusted when they are needed most – with this in mind, Executives strive to create order and security in their environments by establishing rules, structures and clear roles.
Excellent Organizers – This commitment to truth and clear standards makes Executives capable and confident leaders. People with this personality type have no problem distributing tasks and responsibilities to others fairly and objectively, making them excellent administrators.Inflexible and Stubborn – The problem with being so fixated on what works is that Executives too often dismiss what might work better. Everything is opinion until proven, and Executive personalities are reluctant to trust an opinion long enough for it to have that chance.
Uncomfortable with Unconventional Situations – Executives are strong adherents to tradition and when suddenly forced to try unvetted solutions, they become uncomfortable and stressed. New ideas suggest that their methods weren’t good enough, and abandoning what has always worked before in favor of something that may yet fail risks their image of reliability.
Judgmental – Executives have strong convictions about what is right, wrong, and socially acceptable. Executives’ compulsion to create order often extends to all things and everyone, ignoring the possibility that there are two right ways to get things done. Executives do not hesitate to let these “deviants” know what they think, considering it their duty to set things right.
Too Focused on Social Status – Executives take pride in the respect of their friends, colleagues and community and while difficult to admit, are very concerned with public opinion. Executives (especially Turbulent ones) can get so caught up in meeting others’ expectations that they fail to address their own needs.
Difficult to Relax – This need for respect fosters a need to maintain their dignity, which can make it difficult to cut loose and relax for risk of looking the fool, even in good fun.
Difficulty Expressing Emotion – This is all evidence of Executives’ greatest weakness: expressing emotions and feeling empathy. People with the Executive personality type get so caught up in the facts and most effective methods that they forget to think of what makes others happy, or of their sensitivity. A detour can be breathtakingly beautiful, a joy for the family, but Executives may only see the consequence of arriving at their destination an hour late, hurting their loved ones by rejecting the notion too harshly.Few personality types are as practical and strong-willed as Executives. Known for their reliability and administrative skills, Executives are good at creating and maintaining a secure and stable environment for themselves and their loved ones. Executives’ dedication is invaluable in many areas, including their own personal growth.

Yet Executives can be easily tripped up in areas where their rational and practical approach is more of a liability than an asset. Whether it is finding (or keeping) a partner, learning to relax or improvise, reaching dazzling heights on the career ladder, or managing their workload, Executives need to put in a conscious effort to develop their weaker traits and additional skills.What you have read so far is just an introduction into the complex concept that is the Executive personality type. You may have muttered to yourself, “wow, this is so accurate it’s a little creepy” or “finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked “how do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to?”

This is not a trick. You felt understood because you were. We’ve studied how Executives think and what they need to reach their full potential. And no, we did not spy on you – many of the challenges you’ve faced and will face in the future have been overcome by other Executives. You simply need to learn how they succeeded.

But in order to do that, you need to have a plan, a personal roadmap. The best car in the world will not take you to the right place if you do not know where you want to go. We have told you how Executives tend to behave in certain circumstances and what their key strengths and weaknesses are. Now we need to go much deeper into your personality type and answer “why?”, “how?” and “what if?”

This knowledge is only the beginning of a lifelong journey. Are you ready to learn why Executives act in the way they do? What motivates and inspires you? What you are afraid of and what you secretly dream about? How you can unlock your true, exceptional potential?

Our premium profiles provide a roadmap towards a happier, more successful, and more versatile YOU! They are not for everyone though – you need to be willing and able to challenge yourself, to go beyond the obvious, to imagine and follow your own path instead of just going with the flow. If you want to take the reins into your own hands, we are here to help you.
The ESTJ personality type is Extraverted, Sensing, Thinking, and Judging, which means they are energized by time spent working with others, are practical and detail oriented, make decisions based on logic and past experience, and value organization, efficiency, and hierarchy. Disciplined, decisive, and dutiful, ESTJs are eager to take responsibility and they deliver a job well done. They are direct, and honest communicators, but they can appear harsh and become impatient with others’ emotions. ESTJs trust structures of authority and feel personally responsible for upholding the laws, rules, and regulations that they feel keep society running smoothly.
ESTJ is an acronym used to describe one of the sixteen personality types created by Katharine Briggs and Isabel Myers. It stands for Extraverted, Sensing, Thinking, Judging. ESTJ indicates a person who is energized by time spent with others (Extraverted), who focuses on facts and details rather than ideas and concepts (Sensing), who makes decisions based on logic and reason (Thinking) and who prefers to be planned and organized rather than spontaneous and flexible (Judging). ESTJs are sometimes referred to as Supervisor personalities because they tend to take charge and make sure things are done correctly.
ESTJs are hardworking traditionalists, eager to take charge in organizing projects and people. Orderly, rule-abiding, and conscientious, ESTJs like to get things done, and tend to go about projects in a systematic, methodical way.

ESTJs are the consummate organizers, and want to bring structure to their surroundings. They value predictability and prefer things to proceed in a logical order. When they see a lack of organization, the ESTJ often takes the initiative to establish processes and guidelines, so that everyone knows what's expected.
ESTJs are conventional, factual, and grounded in reality. For the ESTJ, the proof is in the past: what has worked and what has been done before. They value evidence over conjecture, and trust their personal experience. ESTJs look for rules to follow and standards to meet, and often take a leadership role in helping other people meet expectations as well. They concern themselves with maintaining the social order and keeping others in line.

ESTJs often take on a project manager role at home as well as at work, and excel at setting goals, making decisions, and organizing resources to accomplish a task. The ESTJ wants to achieve efficient productivity and typically believes this is best accomplished when people and systems are well organized.
ESTJs command a situation, with the sense that they know how things should go and are ready to take charge to make sure that it happens. They are task-oriented and put work before play. Confident and tough-minded, the ESTJ appears almost always to be in control. ESTJs appreciate structure and often begin to organize as soon as they enter a room. They want to establish the ground rules and make sure everyone does what they’re supposed to. ESTJs are often involved in institutions: clubs, associations, societies, and churches, where they usually take a leadership role. They typically connect with others through sharing ritual and routine. Social interaction for ESTJs often means following an established tradition to engage with others in a structured way. ESTJs tend to respect and seek out hierarchy. They want to know who’s in charge, and will assign levels of responsibility if none exist. Once a structure is in place, ESTJs typically trust authority figures and expect obedience from people of lower rank.
Popular hobbies for the ESTJ include building and repairing things around the home, gardening, volunteering, community service, and playing and watching sports.
The ESTJ personality type is Extraverted, Sensing, Thinking, and Judging, which means they are energized by time spent working with others, are practical and detail oriented, make decisions based on logic and past experience, and value organization, efficiency, and hierarchy. Disciplined, decisive, and dutiful, ESTJs are eager to take responsibility and they deliver a job well done. They are direct, and honest communicators, but they can appear harsh and become impatient with others’ emotions. ESTJs trust structures of authority and feel personally responsible for upholding the laws, rules, and regulations that they feel keep society running smoothly.
Organization and efficiency. ESTJs are planners and list makers—orderly and scheduled. Their brain naturally imposes structure on their lives and on their time. ESTJs enjoy creating order out of chaos and are always punctual. This contributes to the perception others have of them as reliable, dependable and steady. 

Dedication and commitment. No one could accuse the ESTJ of shirking, and it’s natural for this type to give 110 percent in all areas of life and exhibit boundless energy as they do. They’d sooner sacrifice their personal time or preferences than renege on a commitment or fail to submit their best work. Employers can count on ESTJs to uphold the vision of the organization at all times, to work at full speed and to encourage others to do the same. 

Integrity. ESTJs demonstrate consistent integrity in roles of leadership, believing the rules apply as much to them as their subordinates. And though they skillfully exercise authority, they also show great respect for their own superiors and don’t struggle to follow orders. They see that organizations and societies function best when there is a healthy sense of respect and duty. 

Stewardship. ESTJs are the gatekeepers of society. They are people who feel personally responsible for upholding the standard and formulating a very clear picture of what passes and what doesn’t. As such, ESTJs can always be counted on to uphold the laws, rules, regulations and ordinances that keep society structured and functioning smoothly. On the home front, ESTJs are committed to their families and desire to provide well for anyone they consider to be under their care. 
Judgmental. A black-and-white approach to life can be a significant pitfall for the ESTJ. While they are commendably committed to their beliefs, they often forget that all of the principles they espouse are neither universal nor objective, and the traditional, time-honored way isn’t the only way. ESTJs may fail to see that innovation can be beneficial and can be impatient with people who choose non-conventional lifestyles, coming across as judgmental or narrow-minded as a result. 

Uncomfortable with emotions. ESTJs often fail to value emotions or take feelings into account—their own and others’—and this can make them appear harsh, abrasive, utilitarian and uncaring. Their typically low EQ may lead them to misjudge the intentions of others and to be equally misunderstood. They often have little patience for people who think or act intuitively or who react emotionally, seeing these as liabilities rather than potential strengths. 

Workaholism. While the ESTJ work ethic is to be commended, people of this type can also err on the side of workaholism and perfectionism. Their Type A personality and intensity can be a little hard for others to take, as they are often quite unsympathetic to those who may not work as hard or as “perfectly” as they do. 

Stubborn and inflexible. ESTJs are committed to their own way or perspective as objectively right, and this can impede the process of personal growth. In fact, ESTJs are often so firmly planted in their original belief, as well as their own rightness, that they fail to acknowledge new or conflicting information that would lead to an altered and perhaps truer conclusion. Rigidity can keep them from being truly open minded and their practical approach to thinking and life in general may stifle their ability to think imaginatively or to exercise vision.