WHO IS AN ARCHITECT (INTJ)?

An Architect (INTJ) is a person with the Introverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Judging personality traits. These thoughtful tacticians love perfecting the details of life, applying creativity and rationality to everything they do. Their inner world is often a private, complex one.Thought constitutes the greatness of man. Man is a reed, the feeblest thing in nature, but he is a thinking reed.It can be lonely at the top. As one of the rarest personality types – and one of the most capable – Architects (INTJs) know this all too well. Rational and quick-witted, Architects pride themselves on their ability to think for themselves, not to mention their uncanny knack for seeing right through phoniness and hypocrisy. But because their minds are never at rest, Architects may struggle to find people who can keep up with their nonstop analysis of everything around them.A Pioneering Spirit
Architects question everything. Many personality types trust the status quo, relying on conventional wisdom and other people’s expertise to guide their lives. But ever-skeptical Architects prefer to make their own discoveries. In their quest to find better ways of doing things, they aren’t afraid to break the rules or risk disapproval – in fact, they rather enjoy it.

But as anyone with this personality type would tell you, a new idea isn’t worth anything unless it actually works. Architects want to be successful, not just inventive. They bring a single-minded drive to their work, applying the full force of their insight, logic, and willpower. And heaven help anyone who tries to slow them down by enforcing pointless rules or offering poorly thought-out criticism.

Architects, independent to the core, want to shake off other people’s expectations and pursue their own ideas.
This personality type comes with a strong independent streak. Architects don’t mind acting alone, perhaps because they don’t like waiting around for others to catch up with them. They also generally prefer making decisions without asking for anyone else’s input. At times, this lone-wolf behavior can come across as insensitive, as it fails to take into consideration other people’s thoughts, desires, and plans.

It would be a mistake, however, to view Architects as uncaring. Whatever the stereotypes about their stoic intellect, these personalities feel deeply. When things go wrong or when they hurt others, Architects are personally affected and spend much time and energy trying to figure out why things happened the way that they did. They may not always value emotion as a decision-making tool, but they are authentically human.

A Thirst for Knowledge
Architects can be both the boldest of dreamers and the bitterest of pessimists. They believe that, through willpower and intelligence, they can achieve even the most challenging goals. But these personalities may be cynical about human nature more generally, assuming that most people are lazy, unimaginative, or simply doomed to mediocrity.

People with the Architect personality type derive much of their self-esteem from their knowledge and mental acuity. In school, they may have been called “bookworms” or “nerds.” But rather than taking these labels as insults, many Architects embrace them. They recognize their own ability to teach themselves about – and master – any topic that interests them, whether that’s coding or capoeira or classical music.

Architects don’t just learn new things for show – they genuinely enjoy expanding the limits of their knowledge.
Architects can be single-minded, with little patience for frivolity, distractions, or idle gossip. That said, they’re far from dull or humorless. Many Architects are known for their irreverent wit, and beneath their serious exteriors, they often have a sharp, delightfully sarcastic sense of humor.

Social Frustrations
Architects aren’t known for being warm and fuzzy. They tend to prioritize rationality and success over politeness and pleasantries – in other words, they’d rather be right than popular. This may explain why so many fictional villains are modeled on this personality type.

Because Architects value truth and depth, many common social practices – from small talk to white lies – may seem pointless or downright stupid to them. As a result, they may inadvertently come across as rude or even offensive when they’re only trying to be honest.

At times, Architects may wonder whether dealing with other people is even worth the frustration.
But like any personality type, Architects do crave social interaction – they’d just prefer to surround themselves with people who share their values and priorities. Often, they can achieve this just by being themselves. When Architects pursue their interests, their natural confidence can draw people to them – professionally, socially, and even romantically.

The Chess Game of Life
Architects are full of contradictions. They are imaginative yet decisive, ambitious yet private, and curious yet focused. From the outside, these contradictions may seem baffling, but they make perfect sense once you understand the inner workings of the Architect mind.

For these personalities, life is like a giant game of chess. Relying on strategy rather than chance, Architects contemplate the strengths and weaknesses of each move before they make it. And they never lose faith that, with enough ingenuity and insight, they can find a way to win – no matter what challenges might arise along the way.Rational – Architects pride themselves on the power of their minds. They can reframe nearly any challenge as an opportunity to hone their rational thinking skills and expand their knowledge – and with this mindset, they can devise inventive solutions to even the most arduous of problems.
Informed – Few personality types are as devoted as Architects to developing rational, correct, and evidence-based opinions. Rather than hunches or half-baked assumptions, they base their conclusions on research and analysis. This gives them the conviction that they need to stand up for their ideas, even in the face of disagreement.
Independent – For these personalities, conformity is more or less synonymous with mediocrity. Creative and self-motivated, Architects strive to do things their own way. They can imagine few things more frustrating than allowing arbitrary rules or conventions to stand in the way of their success.
Determined – This personality type is known for being ambitious and goal-oriented. Architects won’t rest until they’ve achieved their own definition of success – which usually entails mastering the subjects and pursuits that matter to them.
Curious – Architects are open to new ideas – as long as those ideas are rational and evidence-based, that is. Skeptical by nature, Architects are especially drawn to offbeat or contrarian points of view. And if the facts prove them wrong, they are generally happy to revise their opinions.
Original – Without Architects, the world would be a far less interesting place. This personality type’s rebellious streak is responsible for some of history’s most unconventional ideas and inventions. Even in their everyday lives, Architects force the people around them to consider new (and sometimes startling) ways of looking at things.Arrogant – Architects might be knowledgeable, but they’re not infallible. Their self-assurance can blind them to useful input from other people – especially anyone they deem to be intellectually inferior. These personalities can also come across as needlessly harsh or single-minded in trying to prove others wrong.
Dismissive of Emotions – For Architects, rationality is king. But emotional context often matters more than people with this personality type care to admit. Architects can get impatient with anyone who seems to value feelings more than facts. Unfortunately, ignoring emotion is its own type of bias – one that can cloud Architects’ judgment.
Overly Critical – These personalities tend to have a great deal of self-control, particularly when it comes to thoughts and feelings. When the people in their lives fail to match their level of restraint, Architects can appear scathingly critical. But this criticism can be unfair, based on arbitrary standards rather than a full understanding of human nature.
Combative – Architects hate blindly following anything without understanding why. This includes restrictions and the authority figures who impose them. People with this personality type can get caught up in arguing about useless rules and regulations – but sometimes these battles are distractions from more important matters.
Socially Clueless – Architects’ relentless rationality can lead to frustration in their social lives. Their efforts to defy expectations may leave them feeling isolated or disconnected from other people. At times, they may become cynical about the value of relationships altogether, questioning the importance of love and connection.Armed with powerful intellects and strategic minds, Architect (INTJ) personalities can outmaneuver obstacles that seem unbeatable to most. But Architects’ strengths, when misunderstood, can turn into weaknesses – and keep them from reaching their full potential.

Those misunderstandings end here. What you have read so far is just an introduction – we have a great deal more to tell you about the Architect personality type.
The Path of Discovery
In reading through this personality profile, you probably hit a tipping point. You went from trademark Architect skepticism to “Huh…” to “Wait, what?” You might even be a little uncomfortable, because you’re not used to being understood, even by the people closest to you.

Chances are you’ve accepted this as part of who you are, and maybe you’ve even grown proud of it. But embracing that disconnect isn’t a requirement for Architects. It’s a misused defense mechanism that can lead you down a lonely, inefficient path. Gaining insight into yourself and others is so much more rewarding – and effective.

At 16Personalities, we’ve spent years researching the patterns, behaviors, and tendencies that shape Architects’ lives. Step by step, insight by insight, we’ve discovered what makes the difference between a successful, fulfilled, energized Architect and an Architect who’s disappointed by life, constantly falling short of their goals and aspirations. This has given us a deep appreciation of the challenges that people with your personality type face – and how those challenges can be overcome.

Our specialized, research-based offerings for Architects can show you how to use your strengths and avoid common pitfalls – while also staying true to who you are. Because that’s the point, isn’t it? To learn how you can grow into your full potential, in ways that make sense for you.

Ready to take the next step on the path of discovery? Read on.
The INTJ personality type is Introverted, iNtuitive, Thinking, and Judging, which means they are energized by time alone, focused on big picture ideas and concepts, led by logic and reason, and organized. This combination of personality preferences produces people who are analytical, innovative, and strategic. INTJs are comfortable with reason and problem-solving, and they enjoy applying themselves to projects that will increase efficiency. Though they tend to be more reserved, they are curious about the world around them and come to life in an environment of intellectual challenge and discussion.
INTJ is one of the sixteen personality types created by Katharine Briggs and Isabel Myers, creators of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI®). INTJ stands for Introverted, iNtuitive, Thinking, Judging, which are four core personality traits based on the work of psychologist C.G. Jung.

Each of the four letters of the INTJ code signifies a key personality trait of this type. INTJs are energized by time alone (Introverted), focus on ideas and concepts rather than facts and details (iNtuitive), make decisions based on logic and reason (Thinking) and prefer to be planned and organized rather than spontaneous and flexible (Judging).

INTJs are sometimes referred to as Mastermind personalities because of their strategic, logical way of thinking. Other nicknames for the INTJ include
INTJs are analytical problem-solvers, eager to improve systems and processes with their innovative ideas. They have a talent for seeing possibilities for improvement, whether at work, at home, or in themselves.

Often intellectual, INTJs enjoy logical reasoning and complex problem-solving. They approach life by analyzing the theory behind what they see, and are typically focused inward, on their own thoughtful study of the world around them. INTJs are drawn to logical systems and are much less comfortable with the unpredictable nature of other people and their emotions. They are typically independent and selective about their relationships, preferring to associate with people who they find intellectually stimulating.
INTJs are perceptive about systems and strategy, and often understand the world as a chess board to be navigated. They want to understand how systems work, and how events proceed: the INTJ often has a unique ability to foresee logical outcomes. They enjoy applying themselves to a project or idea in depth, and putting in concentrated effort to achieve their goals.

INTJs have a hunger for knowledge and strive to constantly increase their competence; they are often perfectionists with extremely high standards of performance for themselves and others. They tend to have a keen interest in self-improvement and are lifelong learners, always looking to add to their base of information and awareness.
INTJs are typically reserved and serious, and seem to spend a lot of time thinking. They are curious about the world around them and often want to know the principle behind what they see. They thoroughly examine the information they receive, and if asked a question, will typically consider it at length before presenting a careful, complex answer. INTJs think critically and clearly, and often have an idea about how to do something more efficiently. They can be blunt in their presentation, and often communicate in terms of the larger strategy, leaving out the details.

Although INTJs aren’t usually warm or particularly gregarious, they tend to have a self-assured manner with people based on their own security in their intelligence. They relate their ideas with confidence, and once they have arrived at a conclusion they fully expect others to see the wisdom in their perceptions. They are typically perfectionists and appreciate an environment of intellectual challenge. They enjoy discussing interesting ideas, and may get themselves into trouble because of their take-no-prisoners attitude: if someone’s beliefs don’t make logical sense, the Mastermind typically has no qualms about pointing that out.
Popular hobbies for the INTJ include reading, cultural events, taking classes, appreciating art, computers and video games, and independent sports such as swimming, backpacking, or running marathons.
Strategy. INTJs not only see the plan or course of action, they are ready and prepared with several back-ups depending on the various circumstances that could possibly arise. With their expansive, future-focused vision for seeing possibilities and recognizing potential, they are also detailed and logical enough to see holes, gaps and inconsistencies. 

Innovation. Though the INTJ may outwardly appear intractable, as a type they are actually quite receptive to and supportive of change and innovation, and this open approach helps to enhance their problem-solving savvy. They believe that most people, processes and systems have the potential to be improved upon and they will seek new and creative ways to try to bring about that change.

Determination. INTJs are revered for their bravery and steadfastness in the face of challenge. They are characteristically determined in whatever they are doing, even to the point of relentless, and are not afraid to move in to tackle the really difficult challenges. Rather than feeling daunted or frustrated, this excites and exhilarates them. They trust their judgment and are confident in their ability to solve the problems and overcome the challenges they encounter in their personal or professional lives.

Willingness to Learn. INTJs aren’t only looking to change externals and other people. They are also diligently committed to working on themselves. Though they won’t typically dwell long upon their feelings and emotional state, they are fully engaged in the work of self-improvement. They are lifelong learners and will always be looking for ways to increase their knowledge and skills.
Superiority. The INTJ’s prowess in the area of intellect, logic and reason is unarguable and definitely among their chief strengths, as is their confidence in their ideas. However, these strengths can turn into weaknesses when they morph into a superiority complex. Unfortunately, among INTJs, this is not uncommon. They may be arrogant and condescending, as well as impatient with people who don’t catch on as quickly as they’d like. With those who demonstrate less ability to think logically and rationally, they may be particularly judgmental and intolerant.

Emotional Distance. INTJs are also known for their low EQ and unwillingness to engage the emotions—their own or others. Preferring to conceptualize the world on a logical, rational basis, they tend to have little patience for emotional concerns. They struggle to pick up on and respond to the emotional cues and needs of others. This can stifle interpersonal relationships, as well as their own growth and development, and may end up keeping others at (at least) arm’s distance.

Perfectionism. While the meticulousness of the INTJ can be a strength, as in all things, too much of a strength can easily become a weakness, and for the INTJ, this natural fastidiousness quickly becomes perfectionism, and in this they can be quite fierce and painstaking. Their standards in general are exacting and this critique may be directed not only toward themselves, but toward others as well. 

Imbalance. The INTJ places a high priority on work and will be quite devoted to his or her professional life. But this comes at a price, namely in time that might be spent on family, other relationships and leisure. It is easy for the INTJ to find him or herself with misplaced priorities and, as a result, relational problems. While their drive to succeed professionally can certainly pay off, it can take a toll on the rest of their lives.

