A Logician (INTP) is someone with the Introverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Prospecting personality traits. These flexible thinkers enjoy taking an unconventional approach to many aspects of life. They often seek out unlikely paths, mixing willingness to experiment with personal creativity.The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity has its own reason for existence.Logicians pride themselves on their unique perspectives and vigorous intellect. They can’t help but puzzle over the mysteries of the universe – which may explain why some of the most influential philosophers and scientists of all time have been Logicians. This personality type is fairly rare, but with their creativity and inventiveness, Logicians aren’t afraid to stand out from the crowd.

The Life of the Mind
Logicians often lose themselves in thought – which isn’t necessarily a bad thing. People with this personality type hardly ever stop thinking. From the moment they wake up, their minds buzz with ideas, questions, and insights. At times, they may even find themselves conducting full-fledged debates in their own heads.Imaginative and curious, Logician personalities can find endless fascination in the workings of their own mind.
From the outside, Logicians may seem to live in a never-ending daydream. They have a reputation for being pensive, detached, and a bit reserved. That is, until they try to train all of their mental energy on the moment or the person at hand, which can be a bit uncomfortable for everyone. But regardless of which mode they’re in, Logicians are Introverts and tend to get tired out by extensive socializing. After a long day, they crave time alone to consult their own thoughts.

But it would be a mistake to think that Logicians are unfriendly or uptight. When they connect with someone who can match their mental energy, these personalities absolutely light up, leaping from one thought to another. Few things energize them like the opportunity to swap ideas or enjoy a lively debate with another curious, inquiring soul.Elementary, My Dear Logician
Logicians love to analyze patterns. Without necessarily knowing how they do it, people with this personality type often have a Sherlock Holmes–like knack for spotting discrepancies and irregularities. In other words, it’s a bad idea to lie to them.

Ironically, Logicians shouldn’t always be held at their word. They rarely mean to be dishonest, but with their active minds, they sometimes overflow with ideas and theories that they haven’t thought through all the way. They may change their mind on anything from their weekend plans to a fundamental moral principle, without ever realizing that they’d appeared to have made up their mind in the first place. In addition, they are often happy to play devil’s advocate in order to keep an interesting discussion humming along.

For Logicians, the best conversations are like brainstorming sessions, with plenty of room for unconventional thoughts and off-the-wall what-ifs.
Logicians could spend all day musing about ideas and possibilities – and they often do. That said, the practical, everyday work of turning those ideas into reality doesn’t always hold their interest. Fortunately, when it comes to dissecting a tricky, multilayered problem and coming up with a creative solution, few personality types can match Logicians’ creative genius and potential.

Mysteries of the Universe
People with this personality type want to understand everything in the universe, but one area in particular tends to mystify them: human nature. As their name suggests, Logicians feel most at home in the realm of logic and rationality. As a result, they can find themselves baffled by the illogical, irrational ways that feelings and emotions influence people’s behavior – including their own.

This doesn’t mean that Logicians are unfeeling. These personalities generally want to offer emotional support to their friends and loved ones, but they don’t necessarily know how. And because they can’t decide on the best, most efficient way to offer support, they may hold off on doing or saying anything at all.

This “analysis paralysis” can affect multiple areas of Logicians’ lives. People with this personality type can overthink even the smallest of decisions. This makes them feel ineffective and stuck, so exhausted by the endless parade of thoughts in their mind that they struggle to get things done.

The good news is that Logicians don’t have to stay stuck for long. Their unique strengths include everything they need to pull themselves out of the ruts that they occasionally fall into. By leveraging their creativity and their open-mindedness, Logicians can reach their full potential – both as thinkers and as happy, well-rounded people.Analytical – Logicians analyze everything that they come across, from research data to the behavior of the people around them. This gives them a knack for spotting unexpected patterns and connections that other personality types might overlook.
Original – Thanks to their unrelenting imagination, Logicians can come up with creative, counterintuitive ideas that wouldn’t occur to most people. Not all of these ideas are feasible, of course, but Logicians’ willingness to think outside the box can produce remarkable innovations.
Open-Minded – Logicians are driven by curiosity and an intense desire to learn everything that they can. People with this personality type tend to be receptive to new ideas and ways of doing things – as long as those ideas are supported by sound reasoning.
Curious – These personalities are always casting about for new pursuits, hobbies, and areas of research. One week, they might be obsessed with geophysics, and the next, they might lose themselves in videos about guitar building. When inspiration strikes, Logicians go all in on their newfound interest, learning everything that they can.
Objective – Logicians care about the truth. Rather than taking comfort in ideology or received ideas, they want to understand what’s really going on beneath the surface of things. As a result, they can be relied upon to combat bias and misinformation, even when it isn’t easy to do so – and they expect other people to be honest with them in return.Disconnected – Logicians can get lost in their own train of thought, even when they’re with other people. When these personalities finally resurface with something to say, they may find that the conversation has moved on without them. This can cause them to feel disconnected from other people, especially in large social gatherings.
Insensitive – People with this personality type see rationality as the key to a better, happier world. At times, they may underestimate the importance of such irrational values as emotion, compassion, etiquette, and tradition. As a result, they may inadvertently come across as insensitive or unkind, even though their intentions are generally good.
Dissatisfied – Logicians can’t help but imagine how things could be better than they already are. These personalities are constantly on the lookout for problems to solve, topics to learn, and new ways to approach things. Taken too far, this mindset can become overwhelming, with Logicians constantly trying to reinvent the wheel rather than reliably addressing their needs and responsibilities.
Impatient – Logicians take pride in their knowledge and in sharing their ideas. When it comes to explaining their rationale, however, they aren’t always patient. If their conversation partner doesn’t follow along or seem sufficiently interested, Logicians may give up with a dismissive “never mind.”
Perfectionistic – Logicians want to get things done, but their quest for perfection can get in the way. At times, these personalities may get so lost in analyzing various options that they never reach a decision. They may also give up on projects that don’t match the ideal vision in their mind.What you have read so far is just an introduction to the many complexities of the Logician personality type. Along the way, you may have muttered to yourself, “Wow, this is so accurate, it’s a little creepy,” or “Finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked, “How do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to do?”

If you feel understood right now, it’s because you are. Years of research have given us deep insights into the unique strengths and challenges of Logicians like you. And that includes the darker aspects of your personality type: the mystery of why other people just don’t seem to get you, the constant frustration at a world that seems tedious and superficial, and the nagging fear that all of your grand ideas might never amount to anything.Logicians’ gifts include rationality, innovation, and the ability to envision a better future – but they don’t just want to hear what makes them great. Logicians want to find real, meaningful answers to seemingly impossible problems that haunt their imagination.
That’s why we’ve made it our mission to help Logicians like you actually make the most of your strengths. Learning about your personality type is nothing short of fascinating – especially if you’ve felt misunderstood and underappreciated for most of your life, as many Logicians have. But there’s a deeper purpose to it too.

So here’s our question for you, Logician: Are you ready to unlock your true, exceptional potential? If so, your Premium Profile will give you new insights into your personality, your relationships, your career path, and your life mission (or your many missions, since you’re a Logician). This is the journey of a lifetime – and you’ll find everything you need to get started by moving on to the next section.
The INTP personality type is Introverted, iNtuitive, Thinking, and Perceiving, which means they are energized by time alone in deep thought, focused on understanding the theories behind ideas and concepts, led by logic and reason, and unencumbered by tradition. This combination of personality preferences produces people who generally do not buy into conventional thinking, but instead seek to break apart widely accepted ideas to look at them from different angles. Though INTPs do not value small talk, they are passionate and articulate when exploring different complex systems and analyzing bigger universal concepts.
INTP is one of the sixteen personality types created by Katharine Briggs and Isabel Myers, creators of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI®). INTP stands for Introverted, iNtuitive, Thinking, Perceiving, which are four core personality traits based on the work of psychologist C.G. Jung.

The INTP type describes a person who is energized by time alone (Introverted), who focuses on ideas and concepts rather than facts and details (iNtuitive), who makes decisions based on logic and reason (Thinking) and who prefers to be spontaneous and flexible rather than planned and organized (Perceiving).

INTPs are sometimes referred to as Architect personalities because of their intuitive understanding of complex systems. Other nicknames for the INTP include
INTPs are philosophical innovators, fascinated by logical analysis, systems, and design. They are preoccupied with theory, and search for the universal law behind everything they see. They want to understand the unifying themes of life, in all their complexity.

INTPs are detached, analytical observers who can seem oblivious to the world around them because they are so deeply absorbed in thought. They spend much of their time in their own heads: exploring concepts, making connections, and seeking understanding of how things work. To the Architect, life is an ongoing inquiry into the mysteries of the universe.
INTPs present a cool exterior but are privately passionate about reason, analysis, and innovation. They seek to create complex systems of understanding to unify the principles they've observed in their environments. Their minds are complicated and active, and they will go to great mental lengths trying to devise ingenious solutions to interesting problems.

The INTP is typically non-traditional, and more likely to reason out their own individual way of doing things than to follow the crowd. The INTP is suspicious of assumptions and conventions, and eager to break apart ideas that others take for granted. INTPs are merciless when analyzing concepts and beliefs, and hold little sacred. They are often baffled by other people who remain loyal to ideology that doesn't make logical sense.
INTPs are often thoroughly engaged in their own thoughts, and usually appear to others to be offbeat and unconventional. The INTP’s mind is a most active place, and their inward orientation can mean that they neglect superficial things like home décor or appropriate clothing. They don’t tend to bother with small talk but can become downright passionate when talking about science, mathematics, computers, or the larger theoretical problems of the universe. Reality is often of only passing interest to the Architect, as they are more interested in the theory behind it all. INTPs are typically precise in their speech, and communicate complex ideas with carefully chosen words. They insist on intellectual rigor in even the most casual of conversations, and will readily point out inconsistencies of thought or reasoning. Social niceties may fall by the wayside for an INTP who is more interested in analyzing logic, and they may offend others by submitting their dearly held values and beliefs to logical scrutiny.
Popular leisure activities for an INTP include reading, art and cultural events, chess and other strategy games, writing, taking classes, working with computers, backpacking, hiking, and meditation.
Analytical brilliance. Beneath the quiet surface sits an intellectual prowess which INTPs bring to any environment in which they find themselves. They are fast thinkers and highly logical. Others may not know it since much happens inside the INTP’s own head, yet this type excels in analyzing connections between seemingly random pieces of information and finding flawless explanations to problems that disorient most other personality types.

Objective. INTPs are respected for their relentless pursuit of truth, objectivity and understanding. They make this the goal of their lives and channel their energy into rooting out errors and eliminating inconsistencies. They do this not only for their own personal enjoyment but because they see it as their main contribution to the world in whatever field they may find themselves. 

Imaginative. INTPs think deeply about theory, how to understand and explain difficult concepts, and how systems and products function and might be improved. They naturally see things others don’t because they have imaginations that are actively focused and fixated on future potential and possibility. 

Enthusiastic. To others, the INTP may come across as private and withdrawn but when a topic piques their interest, INTPs can be very enthusiastic⁠—excited even⁠—about discussing it. This excitement makes them fun to be around. In the right company, INTPs are keen to express their imaginative sense of humor, and enjoy being playful with people who they can trust.
Uncertainty. Despite their intellectual prowess, INTPs often live in fear of failure, anxious that they will overlook some critical aspect of their theory, idea or invention. This causes them to be self-conscious and to waste time and energy second-guessing themselves. 

Absent-mindedness. INTPs aren’t labeled “absentminded professors” for no reason. At their worst, they tend to be scattered and disorganized. Intellectual and high-minded, they get caught up in their own brains and fail to deal with the low-level tedium of the here and now such as bills or deadlines. They may fail to conform to even the basic expectations of daily life in society. 

Condescension. A significant weakness of the INTP is the tendency to be condescending and critical, either of their opponents or those who simply don’t catch on as quickly as they do. Their constant pursuit of truth and objectivity, though admirable, can also provoke brutality and impatience as they drive home their own perspective. This can be especially toxic in relationships in which logic simply does not always reign supreme. 

Insensitivity. INTPs can get into trouble because of their tendency to prioritize the activity taking place in their minds over the needs of others. They comfortably inhabit the realm of their imaginations and this can bring certain problems, not least that INTPs get so caught up in their own theories and abstractions that they forget any kind of emotional consideration. Their focus on ideas and logic, and neglect of personal considerations, can easily offend.
