A Defender (ISFJ) is someone with the Introverted, Observant, Feeling, and Judging personality traits. These people tend to be warm and unassuming in their own steady way. They’re efficient and responsible, giving careful attention to practical details in their daily lives.

Love only grows by sharing. You can only have more for yourself by giving it away to others.In their unassuming, understated way, Defenders help make the world go round. Hardworking and devoted, people with this personality type feel a deep sense of responsibility to those around them. Defenders can be counted on to meet deadlines, remember birthdays and special occasions, uphold traditions, and shower their loved ones with gestures of care and support. But they rarely demand recognition for all that they do, preferring instead to operate behind the scenes.

This is a capable, can-do personality type, with a wealth of versatile gifts. Though sensitive and caring, Defenders also have excellent analytical abilities and an eye for detail. And despite their reserve, they tend to have well-developed people skills and robust social relationships. Defenders are truly more than the sum of their parts, and their varied strengths shine in even the most ordinary aspects of their daily lives.

Defenders are true altruists, meeting kindness with kindness-in-excess and engaging with the work and people they believe in with enthusiasm and generosity.The Gift of Loyalty
Among Defenders’ most distinctive traits is loyalty. Rare is the Defender who allows a friendship or relationship to fade away from lack of effort. Instead, they invest a great deal of energy into maintaining strong connections with their loved ones – and not just by sending “How are you doing?” texts. People with this personality type are known for dropping everything and lending a hand whenever a friend or family member is going through a hard time.

Defenders tend to feel most energized and effective when they’re showing up for someone who needs their help.
Defenders’ sense of loyalty doesn’t stop with their nearest and dearest – it often extends to their communities, their employers, and even family traditions. But the intensity of their commitment and desire to serve can have its downsides. Other people may take advantage of Defenders’ helpful, hardworking nature, leaving them feeling burned out and overworked. And Defenders may feel guilty or stressed when they contemplate changes – even necessary changes – to themselves, their relationships, or the way they’ve done things in the past.

The Highest of Standards
For Defenders, “good enough” is rarely good enough. People with this personality type can be meticulous to the point of perfectionism. They take their responsibilities personally, consistently going above and beyond and doing everything that they can to exceed others’ expectations.

Defender personalities are known for their humility, and they rarely seek the spotlight.
But what happens when Defenders’ efforts go unnoticed or unappreciated? While Defenders tend to underplay their accomplishments, that doesn’t mean that they don’t enjoy recognition – or that they’re fine with being taken for granted. Unless they learn to stand up for themselves, Defenders may find themselves quietly losing their enthusiasm and motivation, eventually becoming resentful toward the people who just don’t seem to appreciate them.

Showing Up for Others – and Themselves
Although they’re Introverted, Defenders have a deeply social nature. Thanks to their ability to remember the details of other people’s lives, Defenders have a special talent for making their friends and acquaintances feel seen, known, and cherished. Few personality types can match Defenders’ ability to choose just the right gift for any occasion, whether large or small.

Dedicated and thoughtful, Defenders find great joy in helping those around them build stable, secure, and happy lives. It may not be easy for people with this personality type to show up for themselves in the way that they show up for other people, but when they do, they often find themselves with even more energy and motivation to do good in the world.Supportive – Defenders truly enjoy helping others, and they happily share their knowledge, attention, and expertise with anyone who needs it. People with this personality type strive for win-win situations, choosing teamwork over competition whenever possible.
Reliable – Rather than working in sporadic, excited bursts that leave things half finished, Defenders are meticulous and careful. They take a steady approach, ensuring that things are done to the highest standard – and often going well beyond what is required.
Observant – Defender personalities have a talent for noticing things, particularly about other people. They pay attention to the smallest details of what someone says and does, giving them unexpected insights into other people’s lives and emotions.
Enthusiastic – When the goal is right, Defenders apply all of their gifts to something that they believe will make a real, positive difference in people’s lives – whether that’s fighting poverty with a global initiative or simply making a customer’s day.
Hardworking – Defenders don’t just get their work done – they take pride in it. People with this personality type often form an emotional attachment to the projects and organizations that they’ve dedicated themselves to, and they won’t rest until they’ve done their share – or more than their share – to be of help.
Good Practical Skills – This personality type offers the rare combination of an altruistic nature and hard-won practicality. Defenders don’t just hope to help others. They take action – meaning that they’re more than happy to roll up their sleeves and do what’s necessary to care for their friends, family, and anyone else who needs it.Overly Humble – Defenders are so concerned with other people’s feelings that they may refuse to make their thoughts known or to take any duly earned credit for their contributions. And they often downplay their efforts entirely when they think that they could have done some minor aspect of a task better.
Taking Things Personally – Although they might try to hide it, people with this personality type are deeply sensitive to others’ opinions, and they can be thrown off-balance if someone doesn’t appreciate, approve of, or agree with them. When they encounter criticism or disagreement – even if it’s well intentioned – Defenders may feel as if they’re experiencing a personal attack.
Repressing Their Feelings – Private and reserved, Defenders tend to internalize their feelings, particularly negative ones. This can create misunderstandings in their relationships. Eventually, all of their repressed feelings and resentments may boil over in a sudden, uncharacteristic outburst of frustration.
Overcommitted – Defenders’ dutifulness can create situations where they are overwhelmed but unwilling to relax their standards or ask for help. As a result, Defender personalities may suffer silently, trying to do everything themselves, even when it’s simply impossible.
Reluctant to Change – Defenders are among the personality types that struggle the most with change. Breaking with tradition isn’t easy for Defenders, who place great value on history and precedent. Even when change is necessary, they may wait until the situation reaches a breaking point before altering course.
Too Altruistic – Defenders’ giving, generous nature can leave them vulnerable to being taken advantage of by others. It can be hard for people with this personality type to rock the boat and stand up to someone who isn’t pulling their own weight.What you have read so far is just an introduction into the complexities of the caring, devoted, and incredibly loyal Defender personality type. Along the way, you may have muttered to yourself, Wow, this is so accurate, it’s a little creepy, or Finally, someone understands me! You may have even asked, “How do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to do?”If you feel understood right now, it’s because you are. Years of research have given us deep insights into the unique strengths and challenges of Defenders like you. We understand your altruism and your can-do attitude, but we also know the vulnerabilities of your personality type, including the fear that you’ll fall short of your potential.

Defenders’ gifts include generosity, patience, and determination – but they aren’t people who just want to hear what makes them great. Defenders are committed to actually using these gifts to become better people and be of service to others.
That’s why we’ve made it our mission to help Defenders like you not only appreciate your strengths but also make the most of them. Learning about your personality type is fascinating, but there’s a deeper purpose to it, too – because self-understanding is what helps you ensure that you’re putting your gifts to full use.

So here’s our question for you, Defender: Are you ready to take full advantage of your unique strengths? If so, your Premium Profile will give you new insights into your personality, your relationships, your career path, and your life’s mission. This is the journey of a lifetime – and you’ll find everything you need to get started by moving on to the next section.
The ISFJ personality type is Introverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Judging. This combination of personality preferences produces people who are energized by working behind the scenes, pragmatic and detail oriented, deeply committed to supporting others, and loyal to relationships and traditions. At their core, ISFJs strive for excellence and thrive when they can use their time and energy to improve the lives of others. ISFJs work persistently to solve problems and ensure people’s needs are met. Because they place such a high value on rules and established norms, it can be hard for ISFJs to accept change, and they may need to be reminded to relax every once in a while.
ISFJ is an acronym used to describe one of the sixteen personality types created by Katharine Briggs and Isabel Myers. It stands for Introverted, Sensing, Feeling, Judging. ISFJ indicates a person who is energized by time spent alone (Introverted), who focuses on facts and details rather than ideas and concepts (Sensing), who makes decisions based on feelings and values (Feeling) and who prefers to be planned and organized rather than spontaneous and flexible (Judging). ISFJs are sometimes referred to as Protector personalities because of their interest in keeping people safe and well cared for.
ISFJs are industrious caretakers, loyal to traditions and organizations. They are practical, compassionate, and caring, and are motivated to provide for others and protect them from the perils of life.

ISFJs are conventional and grounded, and enjoy contributing to established structures of society. They are steady and committed workers with a deep sense of responsibility to others. They focus on fulfilling their duties, particularly when they are taking care of the needs of other people. They want others to know that they are reliable and can be trusted to do what is expected of them. They are conscientious and methodical, and persist until the job is done.
ISFJs are driven by their personal values, and are conscientious in their behavior. They typically want to work hard, get along with others, and make sure they do what is expected of them.

ISFJs value relationships highly and strive to cooperate and maintain harmony with others. They want stability and longevity in their relationships, and tend to maintain a deep devotion to family. They feel most connected with people they know they can rely upon over the long term.

ISFJs appreciate tradition and like knowing how things were done in the past. They are loyal to established methods and values, and want to observe the proper, accepted way of doing things. They place great importance on fitting in with established institutions and contributing what they can to maintain strong, stable social structures. In groups, they often take on the role of historian, ensuring that new members respect and value the established customs.
ISFJs are characteristically humble and unassuming, and rarely call attention to themselves. They can often be found offering assistance to others in a modest, understated way. They are loyal and hardworking, and often commit themselves to tasks and projects with the aim of being helpful to their families, friends, and communities. They are typically involved in social groups, but do not want the spotlight: they are more likely to be found behind the scenes, working diligently to fulfill their role. ISFJs are oriented to relationships, but can be reserved with new people. They rarely disclose personal information quickly. They tend to be focused and aware of their surroundings, and relate details from their own personal experience. They often converse in terms of what has happened to them and what they have seen first-hand. They are compassionate listeners, and typically remember details about people. They often enjoy hearing the facts about others in the process of making a connection.
For more information: The Art of SpeedReading People
Popular leisure activities for ISFJs include cooking, gardening, painting, crafts, picnics, nature walks, and watching movies. They are also often found supporting their loved ones in their interests and activities.
Practical. With a keen memory, an eagle’s eye for observation and an absolute determination to account for every detail, ISFJs are practical workers par excellence. When focused on a mission, ISFJs possess a Sherlock Holmes-like disposition to solving practical problems, built on an in-depth understanding of concrete facts. 

Hardworking. Intense and serious when a task needs to be completed, ISFJs are super-competent go getters who bring a hard-nosed approach to their work that can sometimes seem excessive to others. But it’s important to remember that ISFJs care deeply about people. When an ISFJ puts her game face on it is a sign that she believes what she is doing will improve people’s lives and is worth taking seriously. 

Supportive. ISFJs are the consummate helpers; happy to share their time and energy with anyone who needs it and taking an empathetic approach to problems and goals. As parents, partners, friends, students, workers, entrepreneurs, neighbors, community members, public servants and citizens, ISFJs always strive for excellence, and it is the inclusivity and comprehensiveness of their vision that forms their identity and gives them their unique ability to brighten every corner of the worlds they inhabit. 

True to their word. By now we are all familiar with the values that ISFJ hold dear: honor, integrity, responsibility, loyalty and commitment. This is all well and good, but to ISFJs it is far more important to walk the walk than talk the talk, and this is where ISFJs shine like the brightest stars. In business and personal relations, ISFJs are straight shooters who say what they mean and mean what they say. Their word is as good as gold. 
Resistant to change. ISFJs regard custom and tradition with the utmost respect and can become anxious with a world they see changing too fast and people who refuse to follow established standards. ISFJs in full "tut-tut/tsk-tsk" mode may convince themselves that moral decay and a loss of respect for personal responsibility are destroying our society from the inside out, and they can become so immersed in pessimism that they will start seeing signs of degeneration and devolution everywhere they look. Diversity of thought and opinion are truly the spices of life, but ISFJs can become so enamored with orthodoxy that they forget this essential fact of existence. 

Too altruistic. Loyalty is an admirable character trait to be sure; but it is a two-way street, and if the people we choose to trust prove to be dishonest or unreliable we must be prepared to walk away. Yet ISFJs struggle with letting go, and have a tendency to stay in it to the bitter end, convinced that this is the only honorable thing to do.

Take things personally. ISFJs are very private people, bordering on the shy, and this does not always mesh well with more open, unpredictable personality types. The social complexity of the environments they inhabit can overwhelm ISFJs and leave them feeling like square pegs in a universe of round holes. They have trouble dealing with conflict and a tendency to take even minor criticism personally. Combined with their stubborn streak, this can leave ISFJs feeling vulnerable and put upon, and they may resort to judgmental criticism themselves as a defense mechanism. 

Overload themselves. ISFJs are known for their terrific work ethic, but over time this positive trait can transmute into workaholism and leave an ISFJ so overloaded that she loses sight of everything else. Workaholic ISFJs can be driven to distraction by their perfectionist tendencies, and even on those rare occasions when they manage to tear themselves away from the office and return home for a while, they will continue to obsess over their latest project or assignment, leaving them too distracted and preoccupied to enjoy their free time.
