An Adventurer (ISFP) is a person with the Introverted, Observant, Feeling, and Prospecting personality traits. They tend to have open minds, approaching life, new experiences, and people with grounded warmth. Their ability to stay in the moment helps them uncover exciting potentials.

I change during the course of a day. I wake and I’m one person, and when I go to sleep I know for certain I’m somebody else.Adventurers are true artists – although not necessarily in the conventional sense. For this personality type, life itself is a canvas for self-expression. From what they wear to how they spend their free time, Adventurers act in ways that vividly reflect who they are as unique individuals.

And every Adventurer is certainly unique. Driven by curiosity and eager to try new things, people with this personality often have a fascinating array of passions and interests. With their exploratory spirits and their ability to find joy in everyday life, Adventurers can be among the most interesting people you’ll ever meet. The only irony? Unassuming and humble, Adventurers tend to see themselves as “just doing their own thing,” so they may not even realize how remarkable they really are.The Beauty of an Open Mind
Adventurers embrace a flexible, adaptable approach to life. Some personality types thrive on strict schedules and routines – but not Adventurers. Adventurers take each day as it comes, doing what feels right to them in the moment. And they make sure to leave plenty of room in their lives for the unexpected – with the result that many of their most cherished memories are of spontaneous, spur-of-the-moment outings and adventures, whether by themselves or with their loved ones.

This flexible mindset makes Adventurers remarkably tolerant and open-minded. These personalities genuinely love living in a world filled with all kinds of people – even people who disagree with them or choose radically different lifestyles. It’s no surprise, then, that Adventurers are unusually open to changing their minds and rethinking their opinions. If any personality type believes in giving something (or someone) a second chance, it’s Adventurers.

Adventurers want to live in a world where they – and everyone else – have the freedom to live as they see fit, without judgment.
That said, Adventurers’ go-with-the-flow mentality can have its downsides. People with this personality type may struggle to set long-term plans – let alone stick with them. As a result, Adventurers tend to have a pretty cloudy view of their ability to achieve their goals, and they often worry about letting other people down. Adventurers may find that adding a little structure to their lives goes a long way toward helping them feel more capable and organized – without quashing their independent spirits.

Living in Harmony
In their relationships, Adventurers are warm, friendly, and caring, taking wholehearted enjoyment in the company of their nearest and dearest. But make no mistake: this is an Introverted personality type, meaning that Adventurers need dedicated alone time to recharge their energy after socializing with others. This alone time is what allows Adventurers to reestablish a sense of their own identity – in other words, to reconnect with who they truly are.

Unless they take time for themselves, Adventurers can end up feeling lost in the tide of everyday life, constantly reacting to external circumstances instead of making their own way.
Creative and free-spirited, Adventurers march to the beat of their own drum, and it would be easy to assume that they don’t particularly worry what other people think of them. But this isn’t the case – Adventurers are thoughtful and perceptive, able to pick up on people’s unspoken feelings and opinions, and it can upset them if they don’t feel liked, approved of, or appreciated. When faced with criticism, it can be a challenge for people with this personality type not to get caught up in the heat of the moment. If they encounter harsh or seemingly unfair criticism, they may even lose their tempers in spectacular fashion.

But there’s good news, too: Adventurers live in the present, and they know that they don’t need to dwell on past hurts or frustrations. Rather than focusing on how things could be different, people with this personality type have an incredible capacity for appreciating what’s right about life just as it is. Everywhere they look, Adventurers can find sources of beauty and enjoyment that other people might miss – and this perspective is just one of the many gifts that they share with the world.Charming – People with the Adventurer personality type are relaxed and warm, and their “live and let live” attitude naturally makes them likable and popular.
Sensitive to Others – Adventurers easily relate to others’ emotions, helping them to establish harmony and good will, and minimize conflict.
Imaginative – Being so aware of others’ emotions, Adventurer personalities use creativity and insight to craft bold ideas that speak to people’s hearts. While it’s hard to explain this quality on a resume, this vivid imagination and exploratory spirit help Adventurers in unexpected ways.
Passionate – Beneath Adventurers’ quiet shyness beats an intensely feeling heart. When people with this personality type are caught up in something exciting and interesting, they can leave everything else in the dust.
Curious – Ideas are well and good, but Adventurers need to see and explore for themselves whether their ideas ring true. Work revolving around the sciences may seem a poor match for their traits, but a boldly artistic and humanistic vision is often exactly what research needs to move forward – if Adventurers are given the freedom they need to do so.
Artistic – Adventurers are able to show their creativity in tangible ways and with stunning beauty. Whether writing a song, painting an emotion, or presenting a statistic in a graph, Adventurers have a way of visualizing things that resonates with their audience.Fiercely Independent – Freedom of expression is often Adventurers’ top priority. Anything that interferes with that, like traditions and hard rules, creates a sense of oppression for Adventurer personalities. This can make more rigidly structured academics and work a challenge.
Unpredictable – Adventurers’ dislike long-term commitments and plans. The tendency to actively avoid planning for the future can cause strain in Adventurers’ romantic relationships and financial hardship later in life.
Easily Stressed – Adventurers live in the present, full of emotion. When situations get out of control, people with this personality type (especially Turbulent ones) can shut down, losing their characteristic charm and creativity in favor of gnashing teeth.
Overly Competitive – Adventurers can escalate small things into intense competitions, turning down long-term success in their search for glory in the moment, and are unhappy when they lose.
Fluctuating Self-Esteem – It’s demanded that skills be quantified, but that’s hard to do with Adventurers’ strengths of sensitivity and artistry. Adventurers’ efforts are often dismissed, a hurtful and damaging blow, especially early in life. Adventurers can start to believe the naysayers without strong support.Few personality types are as colorful and charming as Adventurers. Known for their kindness and artistic skills, Adventurers are great at finding exciting new things to explore and experience. Adventurers’ creativity and down-to-earth attitude are invaluable in many areas, including their own personal growth.Yet Adventurers can be easily tripped up in areas where their focus on practical matters is more of a liability than an asset. Whether it is finding (or keeping) a partner, reaching dazzling heights on the career ladder, or learning to plan ahead, Adventurers need to put in a conscious effort to develop their weaker traits and additional skills.

What you have read so far is just an introduction into the complex concept that is the Adventurer personality type. You may have muttered to yourself, “wow, this is so accurate it’s a little creepy” or “finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked “how do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to?”

This is not a trick. You felt understood because you were. We’ve studied how Adventurers think and what they need to reach their full potential. And no, we did not spy on you – many of the challenges you’ve faced and will face in the future have been overcome by other Adventurers. You simply need to learn how they succeeded.

But in order to do that, you need to have a plan, a personal roadmap. The best car in the world will not take you to the right place if you do not know where you want to go. We have told you how Adventurers tend to behave in certain circumstances and what their key strengths and weaknesses are. Now we need to go much deeper into your personality type and answer “why?”, “how?” and “what if?”

This knowledge is only the beginning of a lifelong journey. Are you ready to learn why Adventurers act in the way they do? What motivates and inspires you? What you are afraid of and what you secretly dream about? How you can unlock your true, exceptional potential?

Our premium profiles provide a roadmap towards a happier, more successful, and more versatile YOU! They are not for everyone though – you need to be willing and able to challenge yourself, to go beyond the obvious, to imagine and follow your own path instead of just going with the flow. If you want to take the reins into your own hands, we are here to help you.
The ISFP personality type is Introverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Perceiving. This combination of personality preferences produces people who rarely demand attention, are observant problem-solvers who see possibilities others miss, base their decisions on their instincts and values, and focus on enjoying the present. With a deep aesthetic streak and a natural talent for the arts, ISFPs appreciate and create beauty in their surroundings. Though ISFPs tend to be bold and spontaneous, seeking new experiences and ways to help others, they tend to become bored easily and can struggle with decision-making and planning for the future.
ISFP is an acronym used to describe one of the sixteen personality types created by Katharine Briggs and Isabel Myers. It stands for Introverted, Sensing, Feeling, Perceiving. ISFP indicates a person who is energized by time spent alone (Introverted), who focuses on facts and details rather than ideas and concepts (Sensing), who makes decisions based on feelings and values (Feeling) and who prefers to be spontaneous and flexible rather than planned and organized (Perceiving). ISFPs are sometimes referred to as Composer personalities because of their innate sensibility for creating aesthetically pleasing experiences.


ISFPs are gentle caretakers who live in the present moment and enjoy their surroundings with cheerful, low-key enthusiasm. They are flexible and spontaneous, and like to go with the flow to enjoy what life has to offer. ISFPs are quiet and unassuming, and may be hard to get to know. However, to those who know them well, the ISFP is warm and friendly, eager to share in life's many experiences.

ISFPs have a strong aesthetic sense and seek out beauty in their surroundings. They are attuned to sensory experience, and often have a natural talent for the arts. ISFPs especially excel at manipulating objects, and may wield creative tools like paintbrushes and sculptor's knives with great mastery.
ISFPs tend to be tolerant and nonjudgmental, but are deeply loyal to the people and causes that matter to them. They endeavor to accept and support other people, but are ultimately guided by their own core values. They will typically look for ways to be accommodating and may have difficulty dealing with others who are not willing to do the same.

ISFPs are typically modest and may underestimate themselves. They usually do not like to be in the spotlight, preferring instead to take a supporting role, and will avoid planning and organizing whenever possible. Sensitive and responsive, they step in to do what needs to be done and are satisfied by their personal sense of being helpful to others.
ISFPs can be difficult to recognize because of their tendency to express themselves through action rather than words. They may initially appear distant or aloof, but if you watch closely, you can observe their caring in the thoughtful things they do for others. They are carefully observant of the practical needs of other people, and often step in with quiet, unassuming assistance at just the moment it is needed. ISFPs prefer to take a supportive role and are rarely assertive or demanding of attention. They are typically tolerant and accepting of others. ISFPs typically have finely tuned artistic sensibilities. They are sensitive to color, texture, and tone, and often have an innate sense of what will be aesthetically pleasing. They are often naturals when it comes to arranging something artistically, and enjoy the process of taking in the sensations around them. ISFPs focus mostly on the experiences of the present moment, and are rarely ambitious, preferring instead to enjoy the simple pleasures of life: friends, family, and sensory delights such as food, music, and art.
Popular hobbies for ISFPs are those that use their physical or artistic skills, including independent athletics like skiing or swimming, dance, and craft projects. ISFPs also enjoy entertaining in intimate groups and exploring art and nature.
Observant. ISFPs are super-observant and seldom overlook any details. However, what makes them so gifted as problem-solvers is that they know how to synthesize what they sense and experience into a coherent whole. ISFPs are experts at finding patterns and connections, and this ability allows them to see possibilities for change and improvement that others miss. Best of all, the advice they give and the solutions they recommend are always practical, sensible and capable of making any situation better in the present moment. 

Bold and spontaneous. Craving fun and excitement as they do, ISFPs know that life is short and that we must seize the moment before it passes us by. ISFPs live extremely active lives, boldly pursuing many hobbies and undertaking many exciting projects. They’re also spontaneous enough to leap at chances for new experiences whenever they might appear.

Principled. ISFPs will not sacrifice their principles for anything, and they have little tolerance for cheaters, liars or hypocrites. Because they are so respectful and find conflict distasteful, ISFPs will not confront people who disappoint them, but they will disassociate themselves from those individuals as soon as they possibly can. 

Individual. Some people spend their whole lives conforming to established standards and traditions. But ISFPs prefer to dance to the beat of their own drummers, relying on their own instincts to reveal what is right, good and true. ISFPs don’t do this as a way to gain attention, or stand out from the crowd. They simply believe that human nature is complex and varied and that everyone’s path should be unique. 
Too sensitive. Kind and considerate ISFPs are so determined to keep the peace that they frequently suppress their unpleasant emotions or ignore their own needs. Putting people first is great, but ISFPs too often forget to include themselves among that privileged group. Unfortunately, ISFPs are very sensitive and can have their feelings hurt at the drop of a hat, so their habit of deferring to the interests of others to avoid conflict tends to put them in uncomfortable positions time after time.

Indecisive and unpredictable. ISFPs are innovative, flexible and adaptable. But there is a fine line between flexibility and indecisiveness, and sometimes ISFPs are so open-minded that they are unable to make firm and final decisions. Too often, ISFPs sway back and forth like willows in the wind, changing their minds repeatedly in response to every persuasive argument they hear.

Easily bored. ISFPs are doers who learn through direct experience and imitation. If the instruction they receive seems too abstract or theoretical, ISFPs view it with suspicion, believing this style of teaching to be boring or irrelevant. But this preference can adversely affect their performance as students. Effective learning requires focus and commitment, and ISFPs at times are not as dedicated as they should be. This can limit their ability to absorb new and useful knowledge. 

Lack of future planning. ISFPs don’t always perceive the full consequences of their actions, or understand how the present inevitably shapes the future. Those who refuse to look beyond the immediate horizon may be unprepared for unpleasant happenings or overwhelmed by new duties and responsibilities—such as those that accompany the arrival of a child, for example. As a result, they may struggle with financial affairs, be ambushed by emergencies or fail to notice the way unresolved conflicts can poison relationships over the long term. 
