A Campaigner (ENFP) is someone with the Extraverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Prospecting personality traits. These people tend to embrace big ideas and actions that reflect their sense of hope and goodwill toward others. Their vibrant energy can flow in many directions.

It doesn’t interest me what you do for a living. I want to know what you ache for – and if you dare to dream of meeting your heart’s longing.Campaigners (ENFPs) are true free spirits – outgoing, openhearted, and open-minded. With their lively, upbeat approach to life, they stand out in any crowd. But even though they can be the life of the party, Campaigners don’t just care about having a good time. These personality types run deep – as does their longing for meaningful, emotional connections with other people.The Magic of Everyday Life
Friendly and outgoing, Campaigners are devoted to enriching their relationships and their social lives. But beneath their sociable, easygoing exteriors, they have rich, vibrant inner lives as well. Without a healthy dose of imagination, creativity, and curiosity, a Campaigner simply wouldn’t be a Campaigner.

In their unique way, Campaigners can be quite introspective. They can’t help but ponder the deeper meaning and significance of life – even when they should be paying attention to something else. These personalities believe that everything – and everyone – is connected, and they live for the glimmers of insight that they can gain into these connections.

Campaigners are independent and creative, always on the lookout for the magic and meaning in everyday life.
When something sparks their imagination, Campaigners can show an enthusiasm that is nothing short of infectious. These personalities radiate a positive energy that draws in other people, and Campaigners may find themselves being held up by their peers as a leader or guru. But once the initial bloom of inspiration wears off, Campaigners can struggle with self-discipline and consistency, losing steam on projects that once meant so much to them.

Seeking Joy
Campaigners are proof that seeking out life’s joys and pleasures isn’t the same as being shallow. Seemingly in the blink of an eye, people with this personality type can transform from impassioned idealists to carefree figures on the dance floor.

Campaigner personalities are capable of intense thought and feeling – and also of kicking back and having a good time.
Even in moments of fun, Campaigners want to connect emotionally with others. Few things matter more to these personality types than having genuine, heartfelt conversations with the people they cherish. Campaigners believe that everyone deserves to express their feelings, and their empathy and warmth create spaces where even the most timid spirits can feel comfortable opening up.

People with this personality type need to be careful, however. Campaigners’ intuition may lead them to read far too much into other people’s actions and behaviors. Instead of simply asking for an explanation, Campaigners may end up puzzling over someone else’s desires or intentions. This kind of social stress is what keeps harmony-focused Campaigners awake at night.

Campaigners will spend a lot of time exploring different relationships, feelings, and ideas before they find a path for their lives that feels right. But when they finally do find their way, their imagination, empathy, and courage can light up not only their own lives but also the world around them.Curious – Campaigners can find beauty and fascination in nearly anything. Imaginative and open-minded, these personalities aren’t afraid to venture beyond their comfort zones in search of new ideas, experiences, and adventures.
Perceptive – To people with this personality type, no one is unimportant – which might explain how they can pick up on even the subtlest shifts in another person’s mood or expression. Because they’re so sensitive to other people’s feelings and needs, Campaigners can make full use of their caring, considerate nature.
Enthusiastic – When something captures their imagination and inspires them, Campaigners want to share it with anyone who will listen. And they’re just as eager to hear other people’s ideas and opinions – even if those thoughts are wildly different from their own.
Excellent Communicators – Campaigners brim with things to say, but they can be caring listeners as well. This gives them a nearly unmatched ability to have positive and enjoyable conversations with all sorts of people – even people who aren’t particularly sociable or agreeable.
Festive – Campaigners may live for deep, meaningful conversations, but they can also be spontaneous and lighthearted. These personalities know how to find fun and joy in the present moment – and few things give them more pleasure than sharing their joy with others.
Good-Natured – All of these strengths come together to form a person who is warmhearted and approachable, with an altruistic spirit and a friendly disposition. Campaigners strive to get along with pretty much everyone, and their circles of acquaintances and friends often stretch far and wide.People-Pleasing – Most Campaigners are uncomfortable with the prospect of being disliked. To maintain the peace, they may compromise on things that matter to them or allow other people to treat them poorly. And when they fail to win someone over, they might lose sleep trying to figure out what to do about it.
Unfocused – The thrill of a new project – especially one that involves collaborating with other people – can bring out the best in Campaigners. But this personality type is known for having ever-evolving interests, meaning that Campaigners may find it challenging to maintain discipline and focus over the long term.
Disorganized – Campaigners’ enthusiasm is legendary, but it doesn’t extend to everything. Specifically, people with this personality type may try to avoid boring, practical matters, such as chores, maintenance, or paperwork. The resulting sense of disorganization can become a major source of stress in their lives.
Overly Accommodating – Campaigner personalities feel called to uplift others, and they may find themselves saying yes whenever anyone asks them for guidance or help. But unless they set boundaries, even the most energetic Campaigners can become overcommitted, with too little time and energy to tackle the necessities of their own lives.
Overly Optimistic – Optimism can be among this personality type’s key strengths. But Campaigners’ rosy outlook can lead them to make well-intentioned but naive decisions, such as believing people who haven’t earned their trust. This trait can also make it difficult for Campaigners to accept hard but necessary truths – and to share those truths with others.
Restless – With their positive, upbeat attitude, Campaigners rarely seem upset or dissatisfied on the outside. But their inner idealism can leave them with a nagging feeling that some major areas of their life just aren’t good enough – whether that’s their work, their home life, or their relationships.It’s hard to overstate just how much Campaigners (ENFPs) care about love. This is a passionate, warm, openhearted personality type – one that brims with hopes and dreams, ideas and experiences – and Campaigners bring every ounce of this vibrant energy to their romantic relationships.

For Campaigners, romantic relationships are beautiful and exhilarating – an opportunity for two souls not only to explore the world together but also to connect on the deepest of levels.
Many Campaigners harbor a deep longing to share their lives with another person. As a result, these personalities may feel a bit empty or uninspired when they’re single. While their dedication to relationships is admirable, Campaigners may need to guard against investing too much of their sense of self in their relationship status.When Campaigners are interested in someone, they rarely hold back. People with this personality type tend to fall in love easily – and they fall hard. Campaigners shower their new flame with affection, trusting that the devotion and passion that they feel are real.

Optimists at heart, Campaigners are undaunted by the practical challenges and inconveniences of a new partnership. This might explain why they generally don’t shy away from long-distance relationships – in their minds, physical distance is no match for the power of true love. Rather than focusing on potential issues, Campaigners sink into the joys of a relationship’s honeymoon stage, constantly looking for ways to prove their dedication and delight their partner.

In a world of dating games and rules, Campaigners’ willingness to throw caution to the wind can be a breath of fresh air.
For better or for worse, not everyone can match this personality type’s ardor and intensity. Some people just need more space – whether physical, emotional, or both. If their partner’s enthusiasm doesn’t seem to match their own, Campaigners may find themselves feeling insecure or needy.

And when the flames of romance start to flicker or wane – as happens in nearly every longer-term relationship – Campaigners might worry that their devotion has been misplaced and the match isn’t meant to be after all.

The Mystery of Relationships
Perhaps because they’re so unstinting with their affection, Campaigners can struggle with the mystery of why some relationships don’t work out. Shouldn’t love be enough to keep two people happily together – especially when one of those partners is as eager to please as a Campaigner?

But, like everyone, people with this personality type need to remember that relationships are in all ways mutual – mutual interest, mutual growth, and mutual responsibility. As many Campaigners learn, the fate of a relationship has less to do with whether it was “meant to be” in some cosmic sense than with how partners treat and communicate with each other.

Campaigners know that lasting love takes effort and commitment – but they may become alarmed when the work of being in a relationship starts to feel like, well, work.
Cherished Ideals
Campaigners approach their relationships with the highest of ideals. They long to know and unconditionally accept everything about their partner, just as they long for that person to know and unconditionally accept them in return.

With this intense, all-in approach to love, Campaigners may feel more energized in the exciting, unpredictable early stages of a courtship than they do in established relationships. After all, long-term relationships require two people not just to enjoy each other’s company but also to navigate practical matters together, such as chores, budgeting, and social or family obligations.

In settled relationships, Campaigner personalities may find themselves longing for the days when they and their partner were more focused on candlelit dinners than who was going to empty the dishwasher.
For Campaigners, such issues can seem painfully unromantic. But unless these types take on their share of the responsibilities and help keep things running smoothly, they may actually amplify any stress and resentment in the relationship.

Fortunately, Campaigners can find ways to balance their spontaneous, passionate nature with the stability and consistency that long-term relationships require. With their trademark sensitivity and goodwill, these personalities can transform even the most mundane tasks into a creative, heartfelt expression of love.As friends, Campaigners (ENFPs) are cheerful and supportive. They’re nearly always up for a little lighthearted banter – or a deep, heartfelt, emotional discussion about anything and everything.

Generous and giving, Campaigners have much to offer in the realm of friendship. At times, however, they may struggle with a suspicion that they care more about their friends than their friends care about them – a suspicion that can leave these sociable, warmhearted personalities feeling more than a little lonely.For Campaigners, friendship is an opportunity to see the universe through another person’s eyes.
The Adventure of Friendship
Imaginative and upbeat, Campaigners know how to transform even the most ordinary moments into a special occasion. And for these personalities, nearly any opportunity to spend time with friends is a special occasion. Campaigners cherish their friends, and they’d hate to take a single moment together for granted.

With their trademark good cheer, Campaigners can turn any occasion into an adventure – an unforgettable dance party, an impromptu cookie-baking contest, or a soul-baring conversation about the state of the world.
As you might expect, Campaigners’ sociable energy can be a magnet for other outgoing personality types. But their warmth and sincerity draws all sorts of people out of their shells, and many Campaigners feel drawn to befriend people who are relatively shy or reserved.

Attracted to depth and nuance, people with this personality type find it gratifying to watch someone gradually open up and reveal their innermost thoughts and feelings. And with their unique combination of sensitivity and enthusiasm, Campaigners can help quieter friends feel understood and accepted – and not a little exhilarated.

In Too Deep
From the outside, it might seem that friendship comes easily to these personality types – and to some extent, it does. But that doesn’t mean that Campaigners always experience the deep, meaningful relationships that they long for.

Some people simply don’t want to open up emotionally in the way that Campaigners crave. Others may turn out to be closed-minded or judgmental in ways that don’t match their values. To Campaigners, it can sometimes seem as if the rest of the world were satisfied with superficial, casual relationships. In these moments, they can’t help but wonder whether their deep longing for human connection is just too much for other people to handle.

Ever the idealists, Campaigners may find it difficult to accept that they can’t befriend everyone.
Campaigners’ idealism can also cause issues within their close friendships. This personality type is known for going to great lengths to be caring and helpful, and Campaigners take pride in being unfailingly generous with their energy, time, money, attention, and emotions. But, at times, Campaigners may give so much to their friendships that they can’t meet their own needs. Unfortunately, even between the dearest of friends, this sort of imbalance can create resentment and misunderstanding.

Making Life Spectacular
Fortunately, Campaigners’ emotional sensitivity enables them to respond not only to their friends’ needs but also to their own. Once Campaigners learn to balance their desire to help others with their need to stay true to themselves, they can bring the full strength of their empathy, curiosity, and joy to their friendships. And the adventures that Campaigners share with their friends are the stuff that a good life is made of.For Campaigners (ENFPs), one of the great joys of parenthood is sharing their sense of wonder and inspiration with their children. Few things feel more rewarding to a Campaigner parent than seeing their child light up with curiosity about the world around them.

Parents with this personality type want their children to feel accepted and worthy just as they are. Rather than pressuring their children to look or act a certain way, Campaigners encourage their children’s creativity and self-expression. Drawing on their own ingenuity and creativity, these parents guide their children to discover and embrace their unique passions and interests.

Campaigners encourage their children’s curiosity, sweeping away dolls and dinosaurs when interests shift to the ocean, then sweeping away the fish when tastes change again, to the stars.Balancing Love and Discipline
Most Campaigner parents know the value of structure and predictability. That said, they might not have the heart (or, as they may see it, the lack of heart) to enforce rules and restrictions. These personalities often worry that if they’re too strict or disciplinarian, they’ll compromise the loving bond that they have with their children.

With time, however, many Campaigners discover that having just enough structure can actually help their children thrive. Once they recognize this, these parents often learn to set guidelines in a way that’s loving but firm. In this light, enforcing appropriate rules can become yet another way that Campaigners express just how much they love and care for their children.

No matter how their children behave, Campaigner parents rarely lose touch with their open-minded and empathetic nature.
Campaigners tend to radiate acceptance and compassion. As parents, they aim to become confidants their children can open up to without fear of judgment. People with this personality type excel at creating safe spaces where their children can feel comfortable talking about their frustrations and their fears, as well as their dearest hopes and dreams.

Go On, Spread Your Wings
Throughout their children’s lives, Campaigners provide a combination of almost overwhelming love and support. But as children mature into adolescence, they naturally feel drawn to establish their independence. They may spend more time with their friends than with their family or experiment with views and ideas that are radically different from their parents’.

Campaigners often see their children’s choices and behaviors as a referendum on their own parenting success.
Although Campaigners love the idea of their children becoming independent, they may sometimes feel that their children are pushing them away – something that can be profoundly hurtful for these personalities. Campaigners may be free spirits, but they are also sensitive to others’ feelings and expectations, and they may struggle not to take their children’s behavior personally.

Fortunately, Campaigners’ compassion can help them understand and honor their children’s needs through every stage of development. Parents with this personality type have the wonderful ability to meet their children exactly where they are. This can help their children develop a strong sense of self and self-worth, enabling them to venture confidently out into the big, wide world, knowing that they have both themselves and their Campaigner parent to depend on.“Maybe I could…fly helicopters and be an oceanographer who writes songs and cooks?” Campaigners (ENFPs) are known for having a wealth of ideas, interests, and hobbies – to the extent that they may struggle to fit everything that they care about into their lives.

It’s no surprise, then, that choosing a career path can leave people with this personality type feeling overwhelmed or scattered. They may feel pulled in multiple directions, uncertain of how to honor their passions and keep their options open while pulling in a steady paycheck.The good news? Campaigners can use their boundless curiosity and imagination to propel themselves forward in nearly any profession.

When selecting a career, Campaigners tend to find that their main issue isn’t a lack of options. It’s that there are just so many fascinating and worthy possibilities to explore.
What Works for Campaigners
Campaigners have a way of brightening the world around them – including their workplaces. With the right mindset, these personalities can find pleasure and gratification in nearly any job. They may even welcome the challenge of breaking through a grumpy coworker’s shell, making harried customers smile, or boosting the morale of a less-than-cheerful workplace.

That said, Campaigners are more likely to be fulfilled by work that meets certain criteria. First, they need to believe that what they do on a daily basis aligns with their core values. Second, most people with this personality type feel best in jobs that use – and build on – their talents.

It can be hard for Campaigners to maintain motivation in a job that doesn’t enable them to help people or create community in some way.
These personality types may feel that something is missing if they take on a career that doesn’t allow them to use and improve their people skills. Campaigners also tend to be most motivated in careers that offer learning opportunities and room for creativity – including the opportunity to experiment with side projects that catch their interest.

This explains why many Campaigners are drawn to careers in nonprofits, public service, counseling, education, customer or public relations, hospitality, media and entertainment, and the service industry. Jobs in social media and communications can be an excellent fit for them as well, allowing them to balance creativity with a sense of human connection. Campaigners may also gravitate toward scientific and technical fields where they can have a positive impact, such as human health and environmental science.

Letting Creativity Prevail
For people with this personality type, few things are as demoralizing as a job where every day is the same. Predictability and repetition can make Campaigners feel not only bored but also a little disheartened. Although they benefit from a degree of structure and accountability, they may lose steam in work environments that rely on strict regimentation and hierarchy.

Campaigners crave variety, and they love to ask questions. To maintain motivation, they need to feel as if they’re pushing boundaries and exploring new ideas. Any job that expects them to keep quiet and follow protocol is effectively turning two of Campaigners’ greatest strengths into liabilities.

Fortunately, Campaigners’ irrepressible creativity is an asset in the majority of workplaces. With their enthusiasm and empathy, these personalities can turn each workday into an opportunity to learn something new and make the world just a little better – and they wouldn’t have it any other way.With their warmth and open-mindedness, Campaigners (ENFPs) often find ways to make their workplaces more creative, inspiring, and caring – no matter where they may be on the career ladder. Whether they’re a brand-new hire or a CEO, Campaigners feel happiest when they have the time and freedom to explore new ideas. And if they can explore those ideas alongside other people who share their excitement – well, that’s even better.
Some personality types are sticklers for workplace hierarchies, but Campaigners see all of their colleagues as their equals. Sure, they may want to impress their boss, but chances are they want to make a good impression on everyone else as well.

Campaigner Subordinates
As employees, Campaigners often impress their managers with their creativity and adaptability. People with this personality type are happy to experiment with new ways of doing things and to change course when necessary. They also stand out as excellent listeners, always eager to consider other people’s perspectives.

Like any personality type, though, Campaigner subordinates have their pet peeves. Chief among these is micromanagement. Campaigners care about doing a good job, and they often feel that they do their best work when they can move at their own pace and do things in their own style.

Constant nitpicking from their bosses can be seriously stressful for Campaigners.
That said, many people with this personality type do benefit from some direct management and oversight. Campaigners are notorious for skipping ahead to a new project before they’ve completed the last one. They love exploring new endeavors, but once a project’s allure begins to fade, they may find it difficult to stay motivated. In this spirit, Campaigners may find it helpful to view check-ins from their bosses as accountability and encouragement – in other words, teamwork – rather than micromanagement.

Campaigner Colleagues
Campaigners view the people they work with not just as coworkers but as friends. People with this personality type take a genuine interest in their colleagues, curious about what makes them tick.

Campaigners can be counted on to provide cheer and support whenever one of their coworkers is down or stressed.
Campaigners are always on the search for win-win solutions to any problem. They don’t want to succeed at other people’s expense, and they rarely put down a colleague to make themselves look good. Instead, they give credit where it’s due and lavish praise on anyone who does a good job. Group brainstorms are their forte. Campaigners listen to other people’s viewpoints and suggestions not just with tolerance but also genuine excitement.

Their ability to relax and have fun will always make these personalities popular around the watercooler. But what sets Campaigners apart is how they can transform their popularity into natural leadership, inspiring their colleagues to band together in teams and collaborate to reach their goals.

Campaigner Managers
Campaigner bosses don’t talk down to the people who work for them. In fact, managers with this personality type behave much like they did before they were in charge – they establish real connections with their employees, and they inspire by example rather than shouting orders from behind their desks.

Campaigners prefer to focus on the big picture, letting their employees use their own judgment when it comes to handling details.
However, not everyone shares this perspective on leadership. In the absence of clear orders, some employees may feel that they are being expected to read Campaigners’ minds. And some teams may need strict deadlines and timetables in order to succeed in their projects.

For Campaigner personality types, it can be especially difficult to reprimand or fire employees – even those who deserve it. Unless they set boundaries and expectations, Campaigner bosses may end up disappointed or even taken advantage of by the people who work for them.

Fortunately, these personalities have the sensitivity and insight to recognize when their team needs more structure or discipline in order to thrive. And while it may not be easy, Campaigners can use their communication skills and empathy to handle even the most challenging workplace situations in a way that is kind and fair.Few personality types are as creative and charismatic as Campaigners (ENFPs). Known for their idealism and enthusiasm, these personalities excel at dealing with unexpected challenges and brightening the lives of those around them.
Campaigners’ curiosity, imagination, and energy are invaluable in many areas, including their own personal growth.
Yet Campaigners can be tripped up in certain areas of their lives. When it comes to building relationships, choosing a career, or turning their dreams into reality, people with this personality type may need to consciously address their weaknesses and gain new skills – even as they draw on their many strengths.

The Secret Life of Campaigners
What you have read so far is just an introduction to the complexities of the Campaigner personality type. You may have muttered to yourself, “Wow, this is so accurate, it’s a little creepy,” or “Finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked, “How do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to do?”

You felt understood because you were. At 16Personalities, we’ve spent years studying Campaigners like you – their hopes and dreams and frustrations, as well as what they need to grow into their fullest, most brilliant potential.

Here’s the truth: you’re not alone. Whatever challenges you’re facing right now, they have been shared – and overcome – by other Campaigners like you.
Moving Forward
Now that you’ve learned the basics, the next step on your self-discovery journey is your Premium Profile. Filled with Campaigner-specific guidance and advice for every area of your life, from your career to your relationships, your Premium Profile will empower you to understand what it really means to be a Campaigner – what it really means to be you.

If you’re ready to create your own path through life, move on to the next section.

