An Advocate (INFJ) is someone with the Introverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Judging personality traits. They tend to approach life with deep thoughtfulness and imagination. Their inner vision, personal values, and a quiet, principled version of humanism guide them in all things.Treat people as if they were what they ought to be and you help them to become what they are capable of being.Advocates (INFJs) may be the rarest personality type of all, but they certainly leave their mark on the world. Idealistic and principled, they aren’t content to coast through life – they want to stand up and make a difference. For Advocate personalities, success doesn’t come from money or status but from seeking fulfillment, helping others, and being a force for good in the world.

While they have lofty goals and ambitions, Advocates shouldn’t be mistaken for idle dreamers. People with this personality type care about integrity, and they’re rarely satisfied until they’ve done what they know to be right. Conscientious to the core, they move through life with a clear sense of their values, and they aim never to lose sight of what truly matters – not according to other people or society at large, but according to their own wisdom and intuition.Seeking Purpose
Perhaps because their personality type is so uncommon, Advocates tend to carry around a sense – whether conscious or not – of being different from most people. With their rich inner lives and their deep, abiding desire to find their life purpose, they don’t always fit in with those around them. This isn’t to say that Advocates can’t enjoy social acceptance or close relationships – only that they sometimes feel misunderstood or at odds with the world.

Fortunately, this sense of being out of step doesn’t diminish Advocates’ commitment to making the world a better place. Advocates are troubled by injustice, and they typically care more about altruism than personal gain. They often feel called to use their strengths – including creativity, imagination, and sensitivity – to uplift others and spread compassion.

Nothing lights up Advocates like changing someone else’s life for the better.
Many Advocates see helping others as their mission in life, and they’re always looking for ways to step in and speak up for what is right. People with this personality type also aspire to fix society’s deeper problems, in the hope that unfairness and hardship can become things of the past. At times, however, Advocates may focus so intently on their ideals that they don’t take adequate care of themselves – a pattern that can lead to stress and burnout.

Connecting with Others (and Themselves)
Advocates may be Introverted, but they value deep, authentic relationships with others. Few things bring these personalities as much joy as truly knowing another person – and being known in return. Advocates enjoy meaningful conversations far more than small talk, and they tend to communicate in a way that is warm and sensitive. This emotional honesty and insight can make a powerful impression on the people around them.

A few close relationships, provided that they’re genuine, can fill Advocates’ hearts to the brim.
Thoughtful and compassionate, Advocates pour a great deal of energy and care into their relationships. This doesn’t mean that they always feel appreciated in return. Advocates tend to act with great thought and care, and it can frustrate them when other people don’t recognize their good intentions. As a result, even constructive criticism may feel incredibly personal or hurtful to these personalities.

A Personal Mission
Many Advocates feel that their life has a unique purpose – a mission that they were put onto this earth to fulfill. For people with this personality type, one of the most rewarding aspects of life is seeking out this purpose – and then, once they’ve found it, striving to do it justice.

When Advocates encounter inequity or unfairness, they rarely give up – instead, they consult their intuition and their compassion to find a solution. With their innate ability to balance the heart with the head, Advocates are hardwired to right the wrongs of the world, no matter how big or small. These personalities just need to remember that while they’re busy taking care of everyone else, they need to pause sometimes and take care of themselves as well.Creative – Advocates aren’t exactly like everyone else – and that’s a wonderful thing. People with this personality type embrace their creative side, always on the lookout for opportunities to express themselves and think outside the box.
Insightful – These personalities know all too well that appearances can be misleading. Advocates strive to move beyond superficiality and seek out the deeper truths in life. This can give them an almost uncanny ability to understand people’s true motivations, feelings, and needs.
Principled – Advocates tend to have strong beliefs and values, particularly when it comes to matters of ethics. When Advocates talk about topics close to their heart, their conviction and heartfelt idealism can inspire and persuade even the sternest of skeptics.
Passionate – Advocates crave a sense of purpose in life. Rather than living on autopilot or sticking to the status quo, they want to chase after their ideals. This isn’t a personality type that shies away from big dreams – in fact, Advocates are energized and impassioned by the beauty of their visions for the future.
Altruistic – People with this personality type aren’t happy to succeed at another person’s expense. Advocates want to use their strengths for the greater good, and they rarely lose sight of how their words and actions might affect others. In their heart of hearts, they want to make the world a better place, starting with the people around them.Sensitive to Criticism – Advocates aren’t averse to feedback – that is, unless they believe that someone is challenging their most cherished principles or values. When it comes to the issues that are near and dear to them, people with this personality type can become defensive or dismissive.
Reluctant to Open Up – Advocates value honesty and authenticity, but they’re also private. They may find it difficult to open up and be vulnerable about their struggles, not wanting to burden someone else with their issues. Unfortunately, when Advocates don’t ask for help, they may inadvertently hold themselves back or create distance in their relationships.
Perfectionistic – The Advocate personality type is all but defined by idealism. While this is a wonderful quality in many ways, it doesn’t always leave room for the messiness of real life. Advocates might find it difficult to appreciate their jobs, living situations, or relationships if they’re continually fixating on imperfections and wondering whether they should be looking for something better.
Avoiding the Ordinary – Advocates yearn to do extraordinary things with their lives. But it’s hard to achieve anything extraordinary without breaking it down into small, manageable steps. Unless they translate their dreams into everyday routines and to-do lists, Advocates may struggle to turn their grand visions into reality.
Prone to Burnout – Advocates’ perfectionism and reserve leave them with few options for letting off steam. People with this personality type can exhaust themselves if they don’t balance their drive to help others with necessary self-care and rest.Love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite.Advocates (INFJs) look for depth and meaning in their relationships – and their romantic relationships are no different. This is a personality type known for having a vibrant, vivid imagination, but few Advocates can imagine themselves settling for a match founded on anything less than true love.

It can take time for Advocates to find a compatible partner. Some people might think that Advocates are too choosy, and it’s true that these personalities can be prone to unrealistic expectations. With their perfectionistic, idealistic nature, Advocates might be tempted to hold out for a “perfect” partner or relationship that ultimately doesn’t exist. The good news? Advocates’ idealism – if balanced with just enough realism – can actually enhance their love life.
Is This for Real?
Advocates tend to be attuned to their core values, keenly aware of what matters to them on a soul level. This helps them look beyond surface-level attraction and understand whether they’re compatible with someone on a deeper, more meaningful level. These insights are essential for helping Advocates avoid matches that aren’t founded on authenticity or shared principles.

Advocates care about integrity, and they tend to bristle when people try to change them or talk them into something that they don’t believe. As a result, Advocate personalities gravitate toward partners who appreciate them as they are.

As romantic partners, Advocates are warm, caring, honest, and insightful – and they patiently work to uncover their loved one’s innermost needs and desires.
Once Advocates do find a suitable relationship, they rarely take it for granted. Instead, they tend to look for ways to grow as individuals and strengthen their connection with their partner. This can help Advocates’ relationships reach a level of depth and sincerity of which many people can only dream.

The Power of Love
People with this personality type create a depth to their relationships that can hardly be described in conventional terms. Because of their sensitivity and insight, Advocates can make their partners feel heard and understood in beautiful ways. Advocates aren’t afraid to express their love, and they feel it with all their hearts.

One of the things that Advocates find most important is establishing genuine, deep connections with the people they care about.
Advocates tend to recognize that love isn’t a passive emotion but rather an opportunity to grow and learn, and they expect their partners to share this mindset. As a result, relationships with these personalities are not for the uncommitted or the shallow. Advocates are intensely passionate in ways that transcend the present moment, and what truly fulfills them is the way that a loving, meaningful relationship evolves and deepens over time.

In their heart of hearts, people with the Advocate personality type crave an emotional and even spiritual connection with their partner. They cherish not just the act of being in a relationship but also what it means to become one with another person in mind, body, and soul.The most I can do for my friend is simply be his friend.Advocates (INFJs) rarely settle for shallow, superficial friendships. When it comes to social fulfillment, they aren’t satisfied by casual interactions with colleagues or classmates. Advocate personalities crave authentic, meaningful friendships – friendships that allow them to share their dreams, bare their souls, and feel understood and accepted for who they are. And if that means having just one or two confidants rather than a wide circle of acquaintances, so be it.

While Advocates may seem quiet or reserved to the world at large, they absolutely light up around their close friends. Few things bring them more pleasure or delight than talking through their passions, interests, and beliefs with a kindred spirit. People with this personality type enjoy the pleasure of their own company, but Advocates still find it liberating to let their guard down and be completely and utterly themselves with a friend they know they can trust.Searching for a Heart of Gold
Advocates are known for having great expectations – not just for themselves but also for their friendships. High on this list of expectations is authenticity. If Advocates have to be fake or tone themselves down to gain someone’s approval, then that person probably isn’t the best friend for them. And it’s hard for people with this personality type to respect someone who won’t be honest with them in return – let alone anyone who can’t be honest with themselves.

Another expectation that Advocates bring to their friendships is mutual support and growth. Having fun together is wonderful, but for these personalities, it isn’t quite enough. Advocates want to surround themselves with friends who inspire them to learn and expand and improve themselves. For them, the surest way for two friends to deepen their bond is by helping each other move forward on their respective life missions.

In friendship, Advocates aren’t just searching for someone to spend time with. They want to find a soul mate – someone who resonates with their passions and their convictions.
This is a tall order, and Advocates may feel that it’s difficult to meet the sort of friends they’re seeking. Because their personality type is so rare, Advocates may meet relatively few people who really remind them of themselves. As a result, they may worry that they need to settle for less-than-fulfilling friendships – or else accept being alone.

Loyalty and Authenticity
Fortunately, people with this personality type are more than capable of finding the types of friends they long to meet – they might just have to devote additional energy to it. Sometimes these friends may be hiding in plain sight, among acquaintances whom Advocates simply don’t know all that well. This personality type is known for having astute first impressions of other people, but even Advocates can miss the deeper potentials of the people they encounter on a daily basis. When they give these people a chance, Advocates may find that they share values and attitudes that make them compatible on a deeper level.

Once they do find genuine friendships, Advocates make loyal, caring companions. At times they may even be surprised by the fierceness of the loyalty and devotion they feel toward their friends. Few situations in life bring out Advocates’ bravery and commitment quite like the opportunity to stand up for a friend who needs them.

With their trademark warmth and enthusiasm, Advocate personalities support their friends’ efforts to grow and expand their lives.
Ultimately, the only way to be counted among Advocates’ true friends is to be authentic, honest, and real. Over the years, Advocates may end up with just a few true friendships rather than a wide circle of casual acquaintances. But as long as those friendships are built on a richness of mutual understanding, Advocates wouldn’t have it any other way.My instinct is to protect my children from pain. But adversity is often the thing that gives us character and backbone.As parents, Advocates (INFJs) have a clear vision for what matters to them: raising their children to be independent and all-around good people. Advocate personalities take their responsibilities seriously, and if they become parents, they think deeply about how they can shape their children’s lives and experiences in positive ways.

Parenthood isn’t easy, but few Advocates expect it to be. These personalities know that many of life’s most worthwhile pursuits are also the most challenging – a mindset that helps Advocates keep sight of joy and fulfillment amid the daily struggles of raising children. In many ways, parenting allows Advocates to make wonderful use of their strengths, including creativity, compassion, and the incredible strength of devotion that they feel toward those they love.Be Unique, Just Like Me
Caring and loyal, Advocate parents are willing to do pretty much whatever it takes to better their children’s lives. But it would be a mistake to think that parents with this personality type are pushovers. In fact, Advocates can be quite strict, because their commitment to building their children’s character in the long term is rarely outweighed by momentary considerations (such as giving their child a piece of candy to help stop a tantrum).

While Advocates bring many gifts to raising children, it’s important to note that no parent is perfect. At times, Advocates may hold their children to unrealistic standards that don’t take into account each child’s personality or stage of development. For example, they might expect their child to model the same integrity and honesty that they expect from themselves, becoming dismayed whenever their child behaves in a way that they perceive to be ungenerous or unethical. Or they might push their child to be independent and creative and unique, seeing it as a sign of weakness if their child craves external structure and guidance.

Advocate parents may unconsciously project a great deal of their own beliefs and values onto their children.
To a child, all of these expectations can feel contradictory and impossible to fulfill – and, depending on the child’s personality and their developmental stage, these expectations might actually be impossible to fulfill. In adolescence, children might rebel by flouting these standards or by espousing beliefs that go against their Advocate parent’s values. In this situation, Advocates may feel that their children are criticizing or rejecting them – a hurtful thing to such a sensitive personality type.

A Job Well Done
Advocates strive to make sure that their children grow up with a firm understanding of the difference between right and wrong. Parents with this personality type encourage their children to fight for a cause that they believe in and to be the best they can be. Whatever age their children might be, Advocates can find a great deal of fulfillment and meaning simply in helping their children learn to be true to themselves.

Ultimately, Advocate parents tend to realize that it isn’t a sign of failure if their children turn out differently than they’d expected. Instead, they come to see this as a sign that they’ve successfully raised someone who has the ability to form their own ideals. Advocates’ children often come to appreciate the combination of independence and integrity with which they were raised – especially as they get older.It’s better to fail while striving for something wonderful, challenging, adventurous, and uncertain than to say, ‘I don’t want to try because I may not succeed completely.Advocates (INFJs) long to find a career that aligns with their values and their dreams – a career that allows them to fulfill their unique mission in this world. For these personalities, a job isn’t satisfying if it doesn’t offer a deeper sense of purpose – no matter how good the salary is. The good news is that people with this personality type can use their creativity and determination to find work that suits their needs in just about any field.

In fact, Advocates have trouble deciding which job is best for them because they’re able to imagine so many possibilities. They may see half a dozen wildly different paths forward, each with its own set of rewards. This can be exciting but also stress-inducing, because picking just one means letting go of so many others. Advocates may even feel a sense of loss when so many doors close because one was selected.

The Search for Purpose
For Advocate personalities, jobs that involve helping and connecting with people can be deeply satisfying. It’s no surprise, then, that many Advocates gravitate toward work as counselors, therapists, psychologists, social workers, teachers, yoga instructors, and spiritual leaders. They may enjoy service industry positions that allow them to interact directly and build genuine relationships with their customers. Careers in health care can also be rewarding options, including occupations such as nursing, physical or occupational therapy, medicine, nutrition, or more holistic paths such as acupuncture.Many Advocates are passionate communicators. This explains why they are often drawn to careers in writing, creating many popular books, blogs, stories, video games, and screenplays. For people with this personality type, the opportunity to tell stories for a living can be nothing short of a dream come true. Other Advocates might pursue music, photography, design, illustration, or fine art. Even if these artistic pursuits aren’t their primary job, many Advocates find that creative side hustles offer a much-needed outlet for the themes and ideas that occupy their imaginations.

Nonprofit workplaces, from museums to nature centers to food pantries, also hold a special appeal. With their focus on serving the community rather than drawing a profit, these organizations can be a natural fit for Advocate personalities. But even in workplaces that are very much for-profit, Advocates can find ways to direct their energy and creativity toward helping others. No matter what it says on their business cards, Advocates’ insight can enable them to spot unusual patterns and come up with outside-the-box solutions, creating real change in others’ lives.

A Sense of Mission
Advocates are incredibly versatile, but some work environments may rub them the wrong way. This is especially true of workplaces that offer little independence or agency, forcing employees to adhere to rigid, repetitive protocols without regard for their individual needs or strengths. People with this personality type may also chafe at the criticism and pressure that come with cutthroat, competitive work environments.

For this reason, many Advocates seek out more flexible, autonomous positions – or branch off altogether to start their own businesses. They may also find it gratifying to create bridges between seemingly disparate professional fields – for example, by writing about psychology or by being an environmental lawyer. Such hybrid careers can offer plenty of opportunities for Advocates to exercise their creativity and their love of learning.

Advocates tend to feel stifled unless their work allows them the freedom to act according to their conscience, their creativity, and their own common sense.
In truth, Advocate personalities can do well in any field. To be truly happy, however, they need to find work that aligns with their values and allows them some independence. Advocates crave opportunities to learn and grow alongside the people they are helping. When this happens, Advocates may finally feel that they are fulfilling their life’s mission, contributing to the well-being of humanity on a personal level.
Advocates (INFJs) have some specific needs when it comes to a satisfying work environment. For people with this personality type, the most rewarding work allows them to help others while also growing as a person. And it’s a given that an ideal career for Advocates must be in line with their individual values.

Anything that gets in the way of these values – from red tape and meaningless rules to office politics and unscrupulous coworkers – can seriously sap Advocates’ motivation. This is a personality type that thrives in environments that promote fairness and equality. Most Advocates prefer not to think of themselves as above or below anyone else – no matter where they are on the job ladder.Advocate Subordinates
Advocates value cooperation, sensitivity, and independence. As employees, they gravitate toward managers who are open-minded and willing to consider their input. Advocate personalities may become frustrated when they feel unheard, so having a manager who listens to them can make all the difference.

Ideally, Advocates will find a manager whose values align with their own and who offers them encouragement and praise.
Because Advocates tend to act on their convictions and aim to do their best, their morale can be vulnerable to criticism, particularly if it’s unwarranted. Other morale killers for these personalities may include strict rules, formal structures, and routine tasks. They may find it especially dispiriting when they’re asked to redo their work, particularly if it’s for a reason that just doesn’t seem valid to them.

Of course, a perfect work environment isn’t always possible. Advocate employees with less-than-ideal managers may need to draw on their inner resilience and seek out other mentors. The good news is that people with this personality type are more than capable of handling workplace challenges, including the challenge of having a difficult manager.

Advocate Colleagues
As colleagues, Advocates can be quite popular and well respected. People with this personality type are often seen as helpful, eloquent, and capable coworkers. Among their greatest strengths is their ability to identify others’ motives and understand the root causes of conflict before anyone else even senses a disturbance.

At times, efficiency may be less of a priority for Advocates than collaborating with and helping colleagues who need a boost. While this is usually a strength, there is a risk that others will take advantage of Advocates’ desire to help. They may find themselves picking up the slack for their less dedicated coworkers at the expense of their own energy and well-being.

Advocates’ determination to be helpful can leave them feeling taken advantage of.
Although they tend to be well liked among their colleagues, Advocates are still Introverts. From time to time, they may need to step back and work alone, pursuing their own goals in their own ways. This isn’t a sign of resentment or ill will – but rather a signal of Advocates’ need to balance serving others with their own self-care.

Advocate Managers
As managers, Advocates may dislike wielding their power. They prefer to think of everyone as equals, no matter what a person’s business card might say. Rather than micromanage their subordinates, Advocates often prefer to empower them to think and act independently. They work hard to encourage others and promote an atmosphere of mutual respect.

Compassionate and fair, Advocate managers often take pride in identifying their subordinates’ unique strengths.
That’s not to say that Advocates have low standards – far from it. Their sense of equality means that they expect their subordinates to live up to the standards that they set for themselves. Bosses with this personality type want their employees to be rigorous, motivated, reliable, and unfailingly honest, and they will notice if anyone misses the mark.

Advocate managers can be particularly stern if they catch someone behaving in a way that they consider unethical. These personalities have little tolerance for lapses in reliability or morality. When their employees’ good intentions match their own, however, Advocate bosses work tirelessly to ensure that their entire team feels valued, fulfilled, and successful.In the end, it’s your actions, how you respond to circumstance, that reveals your character.What you have read so far is just an introduction into the complexities of the kindhearted, creative, and incredibly rare Advocate personality type. Along the way, you may have muttered to yourself, “Wow, this is so accurate, it’s a little creepy,” or “Finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked, “How do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to do?”

If you feel understood right now, it’s because you are. Years of research have given us deep insights into the unique strengths and challenges of Advocates like you. We understand your creativity and your passion and your commitment to doing the right thing, but we also understand the dark side of your personality type: the nagging fear that you might not reach your full potential and make the most of your one wild and precious life.Advocates’ gifts include idealism, determination, and the ability to envision a better future – but they don’t just want to hear what makes them great. Advocates are committed to actually using these gifts to become better people and serve a greater purpose in this world.
That’s why we’ve made it our mission to help Advocates like you not only appreciate your gifts but also make the most of them. Learning about your personality type is fascinating, but there’s a deeper purpose to it, too – because self-understanding is what helps you ensure that you don’t miss out on whatever it is that you were put on this earth to do.

So here’s our question for you, Advocate: Are you ready to take full advantage of your unique strengths – to unlock your true, exceptional potential? If so, your Premium Profile will give you new insights into your personality, your relationships, your career path, and your life’s mission. This is the journey of a lifetime – and you’ll find everything you need to get started by moving on to the next section.