An Architect (INTJ) is a person with the Introverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Judging personality traits. These thoughtful tacticians love perfecting the details of life, applying creativity and rationality to everything they do. Their inner world is often a private, complex one.Thought constitutes the greatness of man. Man is a reed, the feeblest thing in nature, but he is a thinking reed.It can be lonely at the top. As one of the rarest personality types – and one of the most capable – Architects (INTJs) know this all too well. Rational and quick-witted, Architects pride themselves on their ability to think for themselves, not to mention their uncanny knack for seeing right through phoniness and hypocrisy. But because their minds are never at rest, Architects may struggle to find people who can keep up with their nonstop analysis of everything around them.A Pioneering Spirit
Architects question everything. Many personality types trust the status quo, relying on conventional wisdom and other people’s expertise to guide their lives. But ever-skeptical Architects prefer to make their own discoveries. In their quest to find better ways of doing things, they aren’t afraid to break the rules or risk disapproval – in fact, they rather enjoy it.But as anyone with this personality type would tell you, a new idea isn’t worth anything unless it actually works. Architects want to be successful, not just inventive. They bring a single-minded drive to their work, applying the full force of their insight, logic, and willpower. And heaven help anyone who tries to slow them down by enforcing pointless rules or offering poorly thought-out criticism.Architects, independent to the core, want to shake off other people’s expectations and pursue their own ideas.This personality type comes with a strong independent streak. Architects don’t mind acting alone, perhaps because they don’t like waiting around for others to catch up with them. They also generally prefer making decisions without asking for anyone else’s input. At times, this lone-wolf behavior can come across as insensitive, as it fails to take into consideration other people’s thoughts, desires, and plans.

It would be a mistake, however, to view Architects as uncaring. Whatever the stereotypes about their stoic intellect, these personalities feel deeply. When things go wrong or when they hurt others, Architects are personally affected and spend much time and energy trying to figure out why things happened the way that they did. They may not always value emotion as a decision-making tool, but they are authentically human.

A Thirst for Knowledge
Architects can be both the boldest of dreamers and the bitterest of pessimists. They believe that, through willpower and intelligence, they can achieve even the most challenging goals. But these personalities may be cynical about human nature more generally, assuming that most people are lazy, unimaginative, or simply doomed to mediocrity.

People with the Architect personality type derive much of their self-esteem from their knowledge and mental acuity. In school, they may have been called “bookworms” or “nerds.” But rather than taking these labels as insults, many Architects embrace them. They recognize their own ability to teach themselves about – and master – any topic that interests them, whether that’s coding or capoeira or classical music.

Architects don’t just learn new things for show – they genuinely enjoy expanding the limits of their knowledge.
Architects can be single-minded, with little patience for frivolity, distractions, or idle gossip. That said, they’re far from dull or humorless. Many Architects are known for their irreverent wit, and beneath their serious exteriors, they often have a sharp, delightfully sarcastic sense of humor.

Social Frustrations
Architects aren’t known for being warm and fuzzy. They tend to prioritize rationality and success over politeness and pleasantries – in other words, they’d rather be right than popular. This may explain why so many fictional villains are modeled on this personality type.

Because Architects value truth and depth, many common social practices – from small talk to white lies – may seem pointless or downright stupid to them. As a result, they may inadvertently come across as rude or even offensive when they’re only trying to be honest.

At times, Architects may wonder whether dealing with other people is even worth the frustration.
But like any personality type, Architects do crave social interaction – they’d just prefer to surround themselves with people who share their values and priorities. Often, they can achieve this just by being themselves. When Architects pursue their interests, their natural confidence can draw people to them – professionally, socially, and even romantically.

The Chess Game of Life
Architects are full of contradictions. They are imaginative yet decisive, ambitious yet private, and curious yet focused. From the outside, these contradictions may seem baffling, but they make perfect sense once you understand the inner workings of the Architect mind.

For these personalities, life is like a giant game of chess. Relying on strategy rather than chance, Architects contemplate the strengths and weaknesses of each move before they make it. And they never lose faith that, with enough ingenuity and insight, they can find a way to win – no matter what challenges might arise along the way.
Rational – Architects pride themselves on the power of their minds. They can reframe nearly any challenge as an opportunity to hone their rational thinking skills and expand their knowledge – and with this mindset, they can devise inventive solutions to even the most arduous of problems.
Informed – Few personality types are as devoted as Architects to developing rational, correct, and evidence-based opinions. Rather than hunches or half-baked assumptions, they base their conclusions on research and analysis. This gives them the conviction that they need to stand up for their ideas, even in the face of disagreement.
Independent – For these personalities, conformity is more or less synonymous with mediocrity. Creative and self-motivated, Architects strive to do things their own way. They can imagine few things more frustrating than allowing arbitrary rules or conventions to stand in the way of their success.
Determined – This personality type is known for being ambitious and goal-oriented. Architects won’t rest until they’ve achieved their own definition of success – which usually entails mastering the subjects and pursuits that matter to them.
Curious – Architects are open to new ideas – as long as those ideas are rational and evidence-based, that is. Skeptical by nature, Architects are especially drawn to offbeat or contrarian points of view. And if the facts prove them wrong, they are generally happy to revise their opinions.
Original – Without Architects, the world would be a far less interesting place. This personality type’s rebellious streak is responsible for some of history’s most unconventional ideas and inventions. Even in their everyday lives, Architects force the people around them to consider new (and sometimes startling) ways of looking at things.
Arrogant – Architects might be knowledgeable, but they’re not infallible. Their self-assurance can blind them to useful input from other people – especially anyone they deem to be intellectually inferior. These personalities can also come across as needlessly harsh or single-minded in trying to prove others wrong.
Dismissive of Emotions – For Architects, rationality is king. But emotional context often matters more than people with this personality type care to admit. Architects can get impatient with anyone who seems to value feelings more than facts. Unfortunately, ignoring emotion is its own type of bias – one that can cloud Architects’ judgment.
Overly Critical – These personalities tend to have a great deal of self-control, particularly when it comes to thoughts and feelings. When the people in their lives fail to match their level of restraint, Architects can appear scathingly critical. But this criticism can be unfair, based on arbitrary standards rather than a full understanding of human nature.
Combative – Architects hate blindly following anything without understanding why. This includes restrictions and the authority figures who impose them. People with this personality type can get caught up in arguing about useless rules and regulations – but sometimes these battles are distractions from more important matters.
Socially Clueless – Architects’ relentless rationality can lead to frustration in their social lives. Their efforts to defy expectations may leave them feeling isolated or disconnected from other people. At times, they may become cynical about the value of relationships altogether, questioning the importance of love and connection.
Of all forms of caution, caution in love is perhaps the most fatal to true happiness.Architects (INTJs) approach romance the way they do most challenges: strategically, with clear-cut goals and a plan for achieving them. In a purely rational world, this approach would be foolproof. Alas, love is rarely rational, and Architects are at risk of overlooking or misinterpreting the unpredictability of human nature and affection.

For people with this personality type, finding a compatible partner can be a particular challenge. Rarely satisfied with things as they are, Architects can’t help but imagine how the world could be better than it already is – and they often bring this same mindset to the realm of love. Unfortunately, if Architects apply a relentlessly critical eye to every potential partner, they may find themselves constantly dissatisfied.

The Woes of Dating
Architects value depth, intelligence, and unmitigated honesty. For them, a relationship that isn’t founded on these values simply isn’t worth pursuing. It might not come as a surprise, then, that the unspoken rules and social niceties of the dating world can seem useless or even insulting to these personalities.

The good news is that Architects’ honesty and refusal to play games can be a breath of fresh air when it comes to dating. The bad news? Many romantic conventions exist for a reason – often because they make people feel comfortable or special or intrigued. And when Architects refuse to play along, they may find dating difficult, if not impossible.As Architects often learn, the ways of love are hard to describe in a spreadsheet.
As they mature and gain experience, many Architects eventually come to understand the purpose of romantic rituals. Until that point, however, they may decide that dating is too irrational or beneath them. Some people with this personality type might claim to be above the “silliness” of dating in an effort to demonstrate their intellectual superiority. Obviously, this mindset is unlikely to help Architects find or connect with a partner.

Sometimes Architects’ best strategy is to focus on what they enjoy rather than struggle against the rules of dating. Ironically, people with this personality type are often most attractive when they aren’t caught up in trying to be. Just doing what they do best – pursuing the interests that light them up – can help their confidence and intelligence shine.Emotion Sickness
This personality type isn’t known for conventional shows of romance, such as sending flowers or writing mushy notes. Most Architects spend more time thinking about love than expressing it. But when they believe that a relationship has potential, Architects are more than capable of giving it their all, even if that takes them out of their comfort zone.

And a healthy, long-term relationship is pretty much guaranteed to take Architects out of their comfort zone at some point. In particular, emotions can feel like a second language to these personalities. When their partner shares strong feelings, Architects’ default is often to shut down or to analyze the situation, rather than simply listening and offering support. And when it’s time for Architects to share the inner workings of their own hearts, they may feel uncomfortable and exposed. For Architects, becoming comfortable with their partner’s emotions – and their own – can take more than a little practice.

Architects aren’t always ready to share their feelings, but it would be a mistake to think that they don’t have feelings – or that those feelings don’t run deep.
Love is rarely easy, but it’s a challenge that can help Architect personalities grow. Through their relationships, they can learn to focus on the present, get in touch with their emotions, remain involved with other people, and stay open to things that they’re not used to. For a personality type so intent on self-development, these opportunities can make love even more satisfying.Sharp-witted and darkly funny, Architects (INTJs) aren’t everyone’s cup of tea – and they’re okay with that. For the most part, people with this personality type aren’t obsessed with being popular. They don’t spend their time and energy on just anyone, and they can be difficult to get to know.

It would be a mistake, however, to label this personality type as antisocial or unfriendly. Architects do enjoy the pleasure of their own company and their own mind, but they also crave meaningful connections with friends. In fact, few things are more exhilarating to an Architect than the spark that they feel when they’re immersed in conversation with someone who really gets them.An Intellectual Match
It’s not always easy to befriend an Architect. People with this personality type have little patience for social rules or expectations, and they’d rather spend time alone than with someone who bores or irritates them. Architects tend to have a clear idea of what they expect from their social lives and their friends, and they don’t want to waste too much time on anyone who doesn’t seem to meet these expectations.

Architects care about depth and quality. They’d rather have just a few good friends than a large circle of acquaintances.
From the outside, this might sound dismissive, but the truth is that many Architects have a knack for finding friends in seemingly unlikely places. These personalities aren’t particularly swayed by appearances or social status, so they aren’t afraid to befriend people who might be thought of as “outsiders” by the mainstream. In sizing up a potential friend, Architects don’t particularly care how popular that person is – instead, they consider whether that person has values that are compatible with their own, such as intellect, honesty, self-improvement, or simply a different perspective.

In friendship, Architects are looking for an intellectual match as much as anything else. These personalities crave mental stimulation, and they tend to have the most fun among friends who can challenge their ideas, expose them to new concepts, and steer conversations in unexpected directions.

A Unique Friendship
In their friendships, as in other aspects of their lives, Architects prize independence. Social obligations can feel stifling to people with this personality type. Architects don’t want to feel beholden to their friends, and they don’t want their friends to feel beholden to them. For them, an ideal friendship is low drama, based on true enjoyment of each other’s company rather than obligation.

Even with their closest friends, Architects may struggle to offer emotional comfort – or receive it.
Of course, any long-term friendship will have its dramatic moments. When sensitive or emotional situations arise, Architects may feel out of their depth. Architects are used to feeling knowledgeable and capable, and this sudden cluelessness can be disorienting for them. Many people with this personality type have to practice listening to their friends in a nonjudgmental, supportive way rather than jumping in immediately with solutions and advice.

The good news is that, among friends they know and respect, Architects have no trouble relaxing and being themselves. Architects’ sarcasm and witty banter may not be for everyone – especially people who struggle to read between the lines. But these personalities reward their true friends with candor and insight, along with an endless supply of fascinating stories, ideas, and conversations.Children must be taught how to think, not what to think.Architects (INTJs) are known for their rationality and self-control, and they may be bemused by anyone who doesn’t share these strengths – for example, children. For these personalities, parenting often requires mastering new skills and developing cognitive flexibility. Fortunately, Architects are pretty much always up for a challenge – and for Architects who have children, parenthood can be an especially meaningful challenge to take on.An Honest Connection
Architects want their children to grow up to be capable and self-reliant, with clear interests and strong critical-thinking skills. Rather than enforcing pointless rules, parents with this personality type look for age-appropriate ways to foster their children’s independence. That’s not to say that Architects are lenient – far from it. They expect their children to use their freedom responsibly.

Architect parents treat their children the way they want to be treated themselves – with candor and respect.
Some personality types might shelter their children from difficult subjects, but Architect parents believe that knowledge is far better than ignorance. For them, candor is a way of showing respect, and shielding their children from reality would be a disservice. Of course, the success of this approach depends on Architects’ ability to correctly gauge their children’s readiness for these hard truths.

The Chaos of Emotions
Compared to many other personality types, Architects aren’t especially comfortable with displays of affection. Showering someone with love and praise can feel unnatural to them – even if that “someone” is their own child. But children need cuddling and approval and other expressions of love, particularly during their younger years. As a result, Architect parents may need to expand their emotional comfort zone in order to show their children just how much they are loved.

Another challenge for parents with this personality type is offering emotional support. Architects take pride in being in command of their feelings, and they might (consciously or unconsciously) expect their children to be able to do the same. But this expectation isn’t reasonable – emotions may be confusing and, at times, chaotic, but they’re perfectly normal, and children need validation and support in order to navigate them.

Architects are at their best when they can develop a plan to solve a problem’s root cause. But sometimes the best solution to a kid’s problem is just sitting with them as they explore their feelings.
Preparing for Life’s Challenges
Architects try to make sure that their children are prepared to deal with anything that life throws at them. Parents with this personality type have a talent for reframing challenges as learning opportunities – and in doing so, they can inspire their children to develop their own style of rational thinking and problem-solving. Over time, Architects’ children can apply these skills to increasingly complex situations, building their confidence as they grow.

Every parent has a different dream for their child’s future. For Architects, the dream is to raise a competent adult who knows their own mind and solves their own problems. Architects understand that this can’t happen if they protect their children from every difficult or unpleasant thing in life.Architects (INTJs) are rarely satisfied by work that feels easy or comfortable. They want a career that fires up their curiosity and leverages their intellect, allowing them to expand their prowess as they tackle meaningful challenges and problems. If a job’s description makes the average person think, Wow, that sounds hard, then it might just be a good fit for an Architect.

But their hope is that, if they give their children the right tools, they won’t have to.
One never notices what has been done; one can only see what remains to be done, and if one didn’t like the work, it would be very discouraging.
The Early-Career Blues
In the workplace, Architect personalities are often known for competence and effectiveness.
Starting at the bottom of the career ladder can be frustrating for Architects. Early in their professional lives, they may be saddled with easy, routine tasks that bore them half to death. People with this personality type brim with creative and outside-the-box ideas. But with their disdain for schmoozing and workplace politics, they may struggle to earn the favor of their bosses and colleagues.

The good news is that, over time, many Architects develop their abilities into a track record so good that it can’t be ignored. Even when everyone around them falls prey to groupthink, people with this personality type can cut through the noise and figure out the true cause of a problem – and then fix it. As long as they don’t alienate their coworkers, Architects can advance in their careers and gain the leverage that they need to see their ideas through.

Finding Their Place
Some personality types are drawn to jobs that require nonstop teamwork and interaction, but Architects tend to prefer positions that offer independence. By working alone or in small groups, they can make the most of their creativity without constant interruptions from curious coworkers or second-guessing supervisors. Architects really do believe that if they want something done right, they’d better do it themselves.

People with this personality type value resourcefulness, grit, insight, and commitment – in themselves and in others.
The other side of that coin is that Architects have little respect for anyone who gets ahead based on networking or nepotism rather than merit. They believe that everyone should get their work done to the highest possible standards. So if a social butterfly at work breezes through without carrying their own weight, Architects may feel called to use their ingenuity to bring that person back down to earth – or they may be driven to work especially hard to prove their own merit by comparison.

Ever Greater Challenges
Architect personalities demand progress and evolution, and they love to explore new ideas. As their careers progress, they may be drawn to positions that allow them to influence a company’s or organization’s overall strategies. Many Architects pursue low-profile but influential roles as project managers, systems engineers, marketing strategists, systems analysts, management consultants, and military strategists.

People with this personality type tend to be happiest in careers that allow them to innovate and experiment in ways both large and small. It’s no surprise, then, that jobs in engineering, research, science, and technology are common choices for Architects. But creative fields, from architecture to musical composition to video game design, can also gratify their innovative streak. And Architects’ relentless desire to get to the bottom of things can lead them to careers as auditors, cybersecurity specialists, or business analysts.

Architects view a combination of rational analysis and hard work as the foundation of their success.
The truth is that Architects can apply their strengths to just about any role. In a retail setting, for example, their insatiable curiosity might lead them to investigate what makes one front-of-store display more effective than another. Some careers with strong social components, such as sales or human resources, might not seem like obvious fits – but fortunately, Architects know how to look beyond the obvious.

Creative and visionary, Architects want to find a career that takes advantage of their unique gifts. Few personality types, if any, can match their ability to transform complex principles into clear, actionable strategies. Architects know how much they can offer the world through their work – and their priority is to ensure that their position, whatever it may be, makes full use of their skills, knowledge, and intellect.Workplace Habits
Wherever they may be on the career ladder, Architects (INTJs) want to pursue their professional goals according to their own standards. And if any personality type has high standards for themselves, it’s almost certainly Architects.

In theory, this attitude makes for a model employee and coworker. And in many ways, Architects are exactly that. But people with this personality type may be harsh or dismissive toward coworkers they don’t respect – and unfortunately, losing Architects’ respect can be all too easy. In particular, Architects may struggle to work with colleagues who prioritize convenience over innovation or socializing over success.

Architect Subordinates
Architects are known for their independence. Their worst nightmare would be a micromanaging boss who monopolizes their time with pointless meetings, insists on useless rules, or appraises employees’ performance based on how likable they seem rather than their actual merits.Even in entry-level jobs, Architect personalities may chafe at anyone who tries to limit their freedom.Titles mean little to Architects, and they often struggle to defer to a manager they consider less intelligent than themselves. They might also find it difficult to restrain themselves from offering their bosses feedback and criticism – an approach that, depending on the boss, can backfire. In the real world, not all bosses will be as logical or open-minded as Architects might prefer. But that doesn’t mean that people with this personality type should allow a less-than-ideal manager to hold them back.

Architects can use their creativity and ingenuity to expand their responsibilities and develop their expertise – even if they don’t have the independence that they crave. To do this, they may need to prioritize building a productive and respectful relationship with their manager, no matter how far from perfect that person may be.

Architect Colleagues
Few Architects choose jobs that require constant teamwork or social interaction. To these personalities, most team-building techniques and group meetings are a waste of time. And chitchat, gossip, and office politics – well, those can be nothing short of workplace plagues. Even a brainstorming session, normally a delight for Architects, can become tedious if it just goes in circles without leading to clear action.

Most Architects would rather work alone than be slowed down by a pleasant but unfocused coworker.
Fortunately, their determination and focus often enable Architects to produce effective results, even without the help of others. That’s not to say that Architects can’t work with others – in fact, they may achieve some of their greatest successes this way. Relentlessly curious and capable, they can make for excellent collaborators. People with this personality type may never enjoy pairing up with just anyone, but if they look more closely, they often find that at least some of their coworkers deserve their respect. And in the company of trusted colleagues, Architects’ brainstorming sessions may become even more electric.

Architect Managers
Though they may be surprised to hear it, Architect personalities can make great leaders. In the workplace, they rarely throw around their authority just to prove that they’re in charge. Instead, they look for ways to promote innovation and effectiveness – even if that means breaking with established hierarchies.

Some managers might enjoy being pandered to, but Architects would rather be successful than constantly validated.
Generally speaking, Architects prefer to treat those who work for them as equals. Rather than micromanaging, these personalities aim to direct broader strategies while letting other people handle day-to-day activities. That’s not to say that they’re completely hands-off, however. Architect bosses want to know exactly what’s going on and when, and they're always ready to drill into any level of detail necessary to find out.

These managers respect and reward proactive behavior, delegating responsibilities to employees with the strongest critical-thinking skills. But this independence isn’t just granted – it’s required. Employees who struggle to direct themselves – who just want to be told what to do – may have a hard time meeting Architects’ standards. And anyone who tries to cover up bad results with flattery or excuses is likely to be disappointed, as those strategies almost never fool Architects.Armed with powerful intellects and strategic minds, Architect (INTJ) personalities can outmaneuver obstacles that seem unbeatable to most. But Architects’ strengths, when misunderstood, can turn into weaknesses – and keep them from reaching their full potential.

Those misunderstandings end here. What you have read so far is just an introduction – we have a great deal more to tell you about the Architect personality type.The Path of Discovery
In reading through this personality profile, you probably hit a tipping point. You went from trademark Architect skepticism to “Huh…” to “Wait, what?” You might even be a little uncomfortable, because you’re not used to being understood, even by the people closest to you.

Chances are you’ve accepted this as part of who you are, and maybe you’ve even grown proud of it. But embracing that disconnect isn’t a requirement for Architects. It’s a misused defense mechanism that can lead you down a lonely, inefficient path. Gaining insight into yourself and others is so much more rewarding – and effective.

At 16Personalities, we’ve spent years researching the patterns, behaviors, and tendencies that shape Architects’ lives. Step by step, insight by insight, we’ve discovered what makes the difference between a successful, fulfilled, energized Architect and an Architect who’s disappointed by life, constantly falling short of their goals and aspirations. This has given us a deep appreciation of the challenges that people with your personality type face – and how those challenges can be overcome.

Our specialized, research-based offerings for Architects can show you how to use your strengths and avoid common pitfalls – while also staying true to who you are. Because that’s the point, isn’t it? To learn how you can grow into your full potential, in ways that make sense for you.

Ready to take the next step on the path of discovery? Read on.