A Protagonist (ENFJ) is a person with the Extraverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Judging personality traits. These warm, forthright types love helping others, and they tend to have strong ideas and values. They back their perspective with the creative energy to achieve their goals.

Protagonists (ENFJs) feel called to serve a greater purpose in life. Thoughtful and idealistic, these personality types strive to have a positive impact on other people and the world around them. They rarely shy away from an opportunity to do the right thing, even when doing so is far from easy.Protagonists are born leaders, which explains why these personalities can be found among many notable politicians, coaches, and teachers. Their passion and charisma allow them to inspire others not just in their careers but in every arena of their lives, including their relationships. Few things bring Protagonists a deeper sense of joy and fulfillment than guiding friends and loved ones to grow into their best selves.

When the whole world is silent, even one voice becomes powerful.

Speaking Up for What’s Right
Protagonists tend to be vocal about their values, including authenticity and altruism. When something strikes them as unjust or wrong, they speak up. But they rarely come across as brash or pushy, as their sensitivity and insight guide them to speak in ways that resonate with others.

These personality types have an uncanny ability to pick up on people’s underlying motivations and beliefs. At times, they may not even understand how they come to grasp another person’s mind and heart so quickly. These flashes of insight can make Protagonists incredibly persuasive and inspiring communicators.

Changing people’s minds is no easy task – but if anyone can do it, it’s Protagonists.
Protagonists’ secret weapon is their purity of intent. Generally speaking, they are motivated by a sincere wish to do the right thing rather than a desire to manipulate or have power over other people. Even when they disagree with someone, Protagonists search for common ground. The result is that people with this personality type can communicate with an eloquence and sensitivity that are nearly impossible to ignore – particularly when they speak about matters that are close to their hearts.

Getting Involved
When Protagonists care about someone, they want to help solve that person’s problems – sometimes at any cost. The good news is that many people are grateful for Protagonists’ assistance and advice. After all, there’s a reason that these personalities have a reputation for helping others improve their lives.

Protagonists are genuine, caring people who talk the talk and walk the walk. Nothing makes them happier than motivating other people to do what’s right.
But getting involved in other people’s problems isn’t always a recipe for success. Protagonists tend to have a clear vision of what people can or should do in order to better themselves, but not everyone is ready to make those changes. If Protagonists push too hard, their loved ones may feel resentful or unfairly judged. And while this personality type is known for being insightful, even the wisest Protagonists may sometimes misread a situation or unwittingly give bad advice.

Leading the Way
People with this personality type are devoted altruists, ready to face slings and arrows in order to stand up for the people and ideas that they believe in. This strength of conviction bolsters Protagonists’ innate leadership skills, particularly their ability to guide people to work together in service of the greater good.

But their greatest gift might actually be leading by example. In their day-to-day lives, Protagonists reveal how seemingly ordinary situations can be handled with compassion, dedication, and care. For these personalities, even the smallest daily choices and actions – from how they spend their weekend to what they say to a coworker who is struggling – can become an opportunity to lead the way to a brighter future.Receptive – Protagonists have strong opinions, but they’re far from closed-minded. They recognize the importance of allowing others to express themselves fully. Even when Protagonists don’t agree with someone, they recognize that person’s right to voice their truth.
Reliable – Few things bother Protagonists more than the prospect of letting down a person or cause that they believe in. People with this personality type can be counted on to see their promises and responsibilities through – even when it’s difficult to do so.
Passionate – Protagonists are far from being boring do-gooders. These types brim with interests, and they take great pleasure in pursuing their hobbies – whether that’s hiking, cooking, dancing, growing houseplants, or something else entirely. As a result, they rarely find themselves at a loss for something interesting to do.
Altruistic – These personalities are known for harboring a deep desire to be a force for positive change. Protagonists genuinely believe that if they bring people together, they can do a world of good.
Charismatic – Determined and inspiring, Protagonists often find their way into leadership roles. Whether they’re captain of their softball team or a leader on the world stage, they rarely lose sight of their main goal: to be of service to others.Unrealistic – Many Protagonists put pressure on themselves to right every wrong that they encounter. But no matter how hard these personalities strive, it just isn’t realistic for them to solve all of the world’s problems. If they aren’t careful, they can spread themselves too thin – and be left unable to help anyone.
Overly Idealistic – Protagonists tend to have clear ideas about what’s right and what’s wrong. They often think that everyone shares these fundamental principles – or, at least, that everyone should share these principles. So it can come as a genuine shock to Protagonists when people violate their core values, such as truth or justice.
Condescending – People with this personality type enjoy teaching others, particularly about the causes and beliefs that matter so much to them. But, at times, Protagonists’ attempts to “enlighten” others may come across as patronizing – not the most effective strategy for persuading other people, unfortunately.
Intense – When it comes to self-improvement, Protagonists are rarely short on energy or determination. But they may not recognize that not everyone shares these qualities. At times, Protagonists may push others to make changes that they aren’t ready for – or simply aren’t interested in making in the first place.
Overly Empathetic – Compassion is among this personality type’s greatest strengths. But Protagonists have a tendency to take on other people’s problems as their own – a habit that can leave them emotionally and physically exhausted.What you have read so far is just an introduction to the complexities of the Protagonist (ENFJ) personality type. Along the way, you may have muttered to yourself, “Wow, this is so accurate, it’s a little creepy,” or “Finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked, “How do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to do?”

If you feel understood right now, it’s because you are. Years of research have given us fresh insights into the unique strengths and challenges of Protagonists like you. We understand your creativity, your passion, and your commitment to doing the right thing, but we also understand the dark side of your personality type: the nagging fear that you might not reach your full potential and make the most of your one wild and precious life.Protagonists’ gifts include idealism, determination, and the ability to envision a better future – but they don’t just want to hear what makes them great. Protagonists are committed to actually using these gifts to serve a greater purpose.
That’s why we’ve made it our mission to help Protagonists like you not only appreciate your gifts but also make the most of them. Learning about your personality type is fascinating, but there’s a deeper purpose to it, too – because self-understanding is what helps you ensure that you’re doing what you were put on this earth to do.

So here’s our question for you, Protagonist: Are you ready to take full advantage of your unique strengths – to unlock your true, exceptional potential? If so, your Premium Profile will give you new insights into your personality, your relationships, your career path, and your life’s mission. This is the journey of a lifetime – and you’ll find everything you need to get started by moving on to the next section.