A Campaigner (ENFP) is someone with the Extraverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Prospecting personality traits. These people tend to embrace big ideas and actions that reflect their sense of hope and goodwill toward others. Their vibrant energy can flow in many directions.

It doesn’t interest me what you do for a living. I want to know what you ache for – and if you dare to dream of meeting your heart’s longing.Campaigners (ENFPs) are true free spirits – outgoing, openhearted, and open-minded. With their lively, upbeat approach to life, they stand out in any crowd. But even though they can be the life of the party, Campaigners don’t just care about having a good time. These personality types run deep – as does their longing for meaningful, emotional connections with other people.The Magic of Everyday Life
Friendly and outgoing, Campaigners are devoted to enriching their relationships and their social lives. But beneath their sociable, easygoing exteriors, they have rich, vibrant inner lives as well. Without a healthy dose of imagination, creativity, and curiosity, a Campaigner simply wouldn’t be a Campaigner.

In their unique way, Campaigners can be quite introspective. They can’t help but ponder the deeper meaning and significance of life – even when they should be paying attention to something else. These personalities believe that everything – and everyone – is connected, and they live for the glimmers of insight that they can gain into these connections.

Campaigners are independent and creative, always on the lookout for the magic and meaning in everyday life.
When something sparks their imagination, Campaigners can show an enthusiasm that is nothing short of infectious. These personalities radiate a positive energy that draws in other people, and Campaigners may find themselves being held up by their peers as a leader or guru. But once the initial bloom of inspiration wears off, Campaigners can struggle with self-discipline and consistency, losing steam on projects that once meant so much to them.

Seeking Joy
Campaigners are proof that seeking out life’s joys and pleasures isn’t the same as being shallow. Seemingly in the blink of an eye, people with this personality type can transform from impassioned idealists to carefree figures on the dance floor.

Campaigner personalities are capable of intense thought and feeling – and also of kicking back and having a good time.
Even in moments of fun, Campaigners want to connect emotionally with others. Few things matter more to these personality types than having genuine, heartfelt conversations with the people they cherish. Campaigners believe that everyone deserves to express their feelings, and their empathy and warmth create spaces where even the most timid spirits can feel comfortable opening up.

People with this personality type need to be careful, however. Campaigners’ intuition may lead them to read far too much into other people’s actions and behaviors. Instead of simply asking for an explanation, Campaigners may end up puzzling over someone else’s desires or intentions. This kind of social stress is what keeps harmony-focused Campaigners awake at night.

Campaigners will spend a lot of time exploring different relationships, feelings, and ideas before they find a path for their lives that feels right. But when they finally do find their way, their imagination, empathy, and courage can light up not only their own lives but also the world around them.Curious – Campaigners can find beauty and fascination in nearly anything. Imaginative and open-minded, these personalities aren’t afraid to venture beyond their comfort zones in search of new ideas, experiences, and adventures.
Perceptive – To people with this personality type, no one is unimportant – which might explain how they can pick up on even the subtlest shifts in another person’s mood or expression. Because they’re so sensitive to other people’s feelings and needs, Campaigners can make full use of their caring, considerate nature.
Enthusiastic – When something captures their imagination and inspires them, Campaigners want to share it with anyone who will listen. And they’re just as eager to hear other people’s ideas and opinions – even if those thoughts are wildly different from their own.
Excellent Communicators – Campaigners brim with things to say, but they can be caring listeners as well. This gives them a nearly unmatched ability to have positive and enjoyable conversations with all sorts of people – even people who aren’t particularly sociable or agreeable.
Festive – Campaigners may live for deep, meaningful conversations, but they can also be spontaneous and lighthearted. These personalities know how to find fun and joy in the present moment – and few things give them more pleasure than sharing their joy with others.
Good-Natured – All of these strengths come together to form a person who is warmhearted and approachable, with an altruistic spirit and a friendly disposition. Campaigners strive to get along with pretty much everyone, and their circles of acquaintances and friends often stretch far and wide.People-Pleasing – Most Campaigners are uncomfortable with the prospect of being disliked. To maintain the peace, they may compromise on things that matter to them or allow other people to treat them poorly. And when they fail to win someone over, they might lose sleep trying to figure out what to do about it.
Unfocused – The thrill of a new project – especially one that involves collaborating with other people – can bring out the best in Campaigners. But this personality type is known for having ever-evolving interests, meaning that Campaigners may find it challenging to maintain discipline and focus over the long term.
Disorganized – Campaigners’ enthusiasm is legendary, but it doesn’t extend to everything. Specifically, people with this personality type may try to avoid boring, practical matters, such as chores, maintenance, or paperwork. The resulting sense of disorganization can become a major source of stress in their lives.
Overly Accommodating – Campaigner personalities feel called to uplift others, and they may find themselves saying yes whenever anyone asks them for guidance or help. But unless they set boundaries, even the most energetic Campaigners can become overcommitted, with too little time and energy to tackle the necessities of their own lives.
Overly Optimistic – Optimism can be among this personality type’s key strengths. But Campaigners’ rosy outlook can lead them to make well-intentioned but naive decisions, such as believing people who haven’t earned their trust. This trait can also make it difficult for Campaigners to accept hard but necessary truths – and to share those truths with others.
Restless – With their positive, upbeat attitude, Campaigners rarely seem upset or dissatisfied on the outside. But their inner idealism can leave them with a nagging feeling that some major areas of their life just aren’t good enough – whether that’s their work, their home life, or their relationships.Few personality types are as creative and charismatic as Campaigners (ENFPs). Known for their idealism and enthusiasm, these personalities excel at dealing with unexpected challenges and brightening the lives of those around them.Campaigners’ curiosity, imagination, and energy are invaluable in many areas, including their own personal growth.
Yet Campaigners can be tripped up in certain areas of their lives. When it comes to building relationships, choosing a career, or turning their dreams into reality, people with this personality type may need to consciously address their weaknesses and gain new skills – even as they draw on their many strengths.

The Secret Life of Campaigners
What you have read so far is just an introduction to the complexities of the Campaigner personality type. You may have muttered to yourself, “Wow, this is so accurate, it’s a little creepy,” or “Finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked, “How do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to do?”

You felt understood because you were. At 16Personalities, we’ve spent years studying Campaigners like you – their hopes and dreams and frustrations, as well as what they need to grow into their fullest, most brilliant potential.

Here’s the truth: you’re not alone. Whatever challenges you’re facing right now, they have been shared – and overcome – by other Campaigners like you.
Moving Forward
Now that you’ve learned the basics, the next step on your self-discovery journey is your Premium Profile. Filled with Campaigner-specific guidance and advice for every area of your life, from your career to your relationships, your Premium Profile will empower you to understand what it really means to be a Campaigner – what it really means to be you.

If you’re ready to create your own path through life, move on to the next section.
