An Advocate (INFJ) is someone with the Introverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Judging personality traits. They tend to approach life with deep thoughtfulness and imagination. Their inner vision, personal values, and a quiet, principled version of humanism guide them in all things.Treat people as if they were what they ought to be and you help them to become what they are capable of being.Advocates (INFJs) may be the rarest personality type of all, but they certainly leave their mark on the world. Idealistic and principled, they aren’t content to coast through life – they want to stand up and make a difference. For Advocate personalities, success doesn’t come from money or status but from seeking fulfillment, helping others, and being a force for good in the world.

While they have lofty goals and ambitions, Advocates shouldn’t be mistaken for idle dreamers. People with this personality type care about integrity, and they’re rarely satisfied until they’ve done what they know to be right. Conscientious to the core, they move through life with a clear sense of their values, and they aim never to lose sight of what truly matters – not according to other people or society at large, but according to their own wisdom and intuition.Seeking Purpose
Perhaps because their personality type is so uncommon, Advocates tend to carry around a sense – whether conscious or not – of being different from most people. With their rich inner lives and their deep, abiding desire to find their life purpose, they don’t always fit in with those around them. This isn’t to say that Advocates can’t enjoy social acceptance or close relationships – only that they sometimes feel misunderstood or at odds with the world.

Fortunately, this sense of being out of step doesn’t diminish Advocates’ commitment to making the world a better place. Advocates are troubled by injustice, and they typically care more about altruism than personal gain. They often feel called to use their strengths – including creativity, imagination, and sensitivity – to uplift others and spread compassion.

Nothing lights up Advocates like changing someone else’s life for the better.
Many Advocates see helping others as their mission in life, and they’re always looking for ways to step in and speak up for what is right. People with this personality type also aspire to fix society’s deeper problems, in the hope that unfairness and hardship can become things of the past. At times, however, Advocates may focus so intently on their ideals that they don’t take adequate care of themselves – a pattern that can lead to stress and burnout.

Connecting with Others (and Themselves)
Advocates may be Introverted, but they value deep, authentic relationships with others. Few things bring these personalities as much joy as truly knowing another person – and being known in return. Advocates enjoy meaningful conversations far more than small talk, and they tend to communicate in a way that is warm and sensitive. This emotional honesty and insight can make a powerful impression on the people around them.

A few close relationships, provided that they’re genuine, can fill Advocates’ hearts to the brim.
Thoughtful and compassionate, Advocates pour a great deal of energy and care into their relationships. This doesn’t mean that they always feel appreciated in return. Advocates tend to act with great thought and care, and it can frustrate them when other people don’t recognize their good intentions. As a result, even constructive criticism may feel incredibly personal or hurtful to these personalities.

A Personal Mission
Many Advocates feel that their life has a unique purpose – a mission that they were put onto this earth to fulfill. For people with this personality type, one of the most rewarding aspects of life is seeking out this purpose – and then, once they’ve found it, striving to do it justice.

When Advocates encounter inequity or unfairness, they rarely give up – instead, they consult their intuition and their compassion to find a solution. With their innate ability to balance the heart with the head, Advocates are hardwired to right the wrongs of the world, no matter how big or small. These personalities just need to remember that while they’re busy taking care of everyone else, they need to pause sometimes and take care of themselves as well.Creative – Advocates aren’t exactly like everyone else – and that’s a wonderful thing. People with this personality type embrace their creative side, always on the lookout for opportunities to express themselves and think outside the box.
Insightful – These personalities know all too well that appearances can be misleading. Advocates strive to move beyond superficiality and seek out the deeper truths in life. This can give them an almost uncanny ability to understand people’s true motivations, feelings, and needs.
Principled – Advocates tend to have strong beliefs and values, particularly when it comes to matters of ethics. When Advocates talk about topics close to their heart, their conviction and heartfelt idealism can inspire and persuade even the sternest of skeptics.
Passionate – Advocates crave a sense of purpose in life. Rather than living on autopilot or sticking to the status quo, they want to chase after their ideals. This isn’t a personality type that shies away from big dreams – in fact, Advocates are energized and impassioned by the beauty of their visions for the future.
Altruistic – People with this personality type aren’t happy to succeed at another person’s expense. Advocates want to use their strengths for the greater good, and they rarely lose sight of how their words and actions might affect others. In their heart of hearts, they want to make the world a better place, starting with the people around them.Sensitive to Criticism – Advocates aren’t averse to feedback – that is, unless they believe that someone is challenging their most cherished principles or values. When it comes to the issues that are near and dear to them, people with this personality type can become defensive or dismissive.
Reluctant to Open Up – Advocates value honesty and authenticity, but they’re also private. They may find it difficult to open up and be vulnerable about their struggles, not wanting to burden someone else with their issues. Unfortunately, when Advocates don’t ask for help, they may inadvertently hold themselves back or create distance in their relationships.
Perfectionistic – The Advocate personality type is all but defined by idealism. While this is a wonderful quality in many ways, it doesn’t always leave room for the messiness of real life. Advocates might find it difficult to appreciate their jobs, living situations, or relationships if they’re continually fixating on imperfections and wondering whether they should be looking for something better.
Avoiding the Ordinary – Advocates yearn to do extraordinary things with their lives. But it’s hard to achieve anything extraordinary without breaking it down into small, manageable steps. Unless they translate their dreams into everyday routines and to-do lists, Advocates may struggle to turn their grand visions into reality.
Prone to Burnout – Advocates’ perfectionism and reserve leave them with few options for letting off steam. People with this personality type can exhaust themselves if they don’t balance their drive to help others with necessary self-care and rest.In the end, it’s your actions, how you respond to circumstance, that reveals your character.What you have read so far is just an introduction into the complexities of the kindhearted, creative, and incredibly rare Advocate personality type. Along the way, you may have muttered to yourself, “Wow, this is so accurate, it’s a little creepy,” or “Finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked, “How do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to do?”

If you feel understood right now, it’s because you are. Years of research have given us deep insights into the unique strengths and challenges of Advocates like you. We understand your creativity and your passion and your commitment to doing the right thing, but we also understand the dark side of your personality type: the nagging fear that you might not reach your full potential and make the most of your one wild and precious life.
Advocates’ gifts include idealism, determination, and the ability to envision a better future – but they don’t just want to hear what makes them great. Advocates are committed to actually using these gifts to become better people and serve a greater purpose in this world.
That’s why we’ve made it our mission to help Advocates like you not only appreciate your gifts but also make the most of them. Learning about your personality type is fascinating, but there’s a deeper purpose to it, too – because self-understanding is what helps you ensure that you don’t miss out on whatever it is that you were put on this earth to do.

So here’s our question for you, Advocate: Are you ready to take full advantage of your unique strengths – to unlock your true, exceptional potential? If so, your Premium Profile will give you new insights into your personality, your relationships, your career path, and your life’s mission. This is the journey of a lifetime – and you’ll find everything you need to get started by moving on to the next section.
