A Mediator (INFP) is someone who possesses the Introverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Prospecting personality traits. These rare personality types tend to be quiet, open-minded, and imaginative, and they apply a caring and creative approach to everything they do.

Although they may seem quiet or unassuming, Mediators (INFPs) have vibrant, passionate inner lives. Creative and imaginative, they happily lose themselves in daydreams, inventing all sorts of stories and conversations in their minds. These personalities are known for their sensitivity – Mediators can have profound emotional responses to music, art, nature, and the people around them.

Idealistic and empathetic, Mediators long for deep, soulful relationships, and they feel called to help others. But because this personality type makes up such a small portion of the population, Mediators may sometimes feel lonely or invisible, adrift in a world that doesn’t seem to appreciate the traits that make them unique.

All that is gold does not glitter; not all those who wander are lost; the old that is strong does not wither; deep roots are not reached by the frost.The Gift of Empathy
Mediators share a sincere curiosity about the depths of human nature. Introspective to the core, they’re exquisitely attuned to their own thoughts and feelings, but they yearn to understand the people around them as well. Mediators are compassionate and nonjudgmental, always willing to hear another person’s story. When someone opens up to them or turns to them for comfort, they feel honored to listen and be of help.

For Mediators, an ideal relationship of any kind is one in which both people feel comfortable sharing not just their wildest hopes and dreams but also their secret fears and vulnerabilities.
Empathy is among this personality type’s greatest gifts, but at times it can be a liability. The troubles of the world weigh heavily on Mediators’ shoulders, and these personalities can be vulnerable to internalizing other people’s negative moods or mindsets. Unless they learn to set boundaries, Mediators may feel overwhelmed by just how many wrongs there are that need to be set right.

Speaking Their Truth
Few things make Mediators more uneasy than pretending to be someone they aren’t. With their sensitivity and their commitment to authenticity, people with this personality type tend to crave opportunities for creative self-expression. It comes as no surprise, then, that many famous Mediators are poets, writers, actors, and artists. They can’t help but muse about the meaning and purpose of life, dreaming up all sorts of stories, ideas, and possibilities along the way.

Mediators have a talent for self-expression. They may reveal their innermost thoughts and secrets through metaphors and fictional characters.
Through these imaginative landscapes, Mediators can explore their own inner nature as well as their place in the world. While this is a beautiful trait, these personalities sometimes show a tendency to daydream and fantasize rather than take action. To avoid feeling frustrated, unfulfilled, or incapable, Mediators need to make sure that they take steps to turn their dreams and ideas into reality.

In Search of a Calling
People with this personality type tend to feel directionless or stuck until they connect with a sense of purpose for their lives. For many Mediators, this purpose has something to do with uplifting others and their ability to feel other people’s suffering as if it were their own. While Mediators want to help everyone, they need to focus their energy and efforts – otherwise, they can end up exhausted.

Fortunately, like flowers in the spring, Mediators’ creativity and idealism can bloom even after the darkest of seasons. Although they know the world will never be perfect, Mediators still care about making it better however they can. This quiet belief in doing the right thing may explain why these personalities so often inspire compassion, kindness, and beauty wherever they go.Empathetic – Mediators don’t just care about other people in an abstract sense. These personalities can actually feel another person’s emotions, from joy and elation to sorrow and regret. Because of this sensitivity, Mediators tend to be thoughtful and kindhearted, and they hate the idea of hurting anyone, even unintentionally.
Generous – Mediators rarely enjoy succeeding at other people’s expense. They feel called to share the good things in their lives, give credit where it’s due, and uplift the people around them. These personalities want to contribute to a world where every voice is heard and no one’s needs go unmet.
Open-Minded – Tolerant and accepting, Mediators try not to judge anyone else’s beliefs, lifestyles, or decisions. This is a personality type that prefers compassion to fault-finding, and many Mediators feel empathy even for those who have done wrong. Because they’re so accepting, Mediators often become confidants for their friends and loved ones – and occasionally for total strangers.
Creative – Mediators love to see things from unconventional perspectives. Few things give them more pleasure than allowing their minds to wander through all sorts of ideas and possibilities and daydreams. It’s no wonder, then, that many Mediators are drawn to creative pursuits – or that this personality type is well represented among writers and artists.
Passionate – When an idea or movement captures their imagination, Mediators want to give their whole heart to it. People with this personality type may not always be outspoken, but that doesn’t diminish their strong feelings for a cause that speaks to their beliefs and convictions.
Idealistic – Mediators strive to follow their conscience, even when doing the right thing isn’t easy or convenient. They rarely lose sight of their desire to live a meaningful, purpose-filled life – one that helps others and leaves the world a better place.Unrealistic – Nothing in this world is perfect – and that can be a difficult truth for Mediators to accept. People with this personality type can be hopeless romantics, with rose-colored visions of what their lives should be like. This can set Mediators up for disappointment when reality inevitably falls short of their dreams.
Self-Isolating – Mediators long to connect with others, but they don’t always know how. Especially in new environments, Mediators may be reluctant to put themselves out there in ways that would help them make new friends or become involved in a new community. As a result, people with this personality type may sometimes feel lonely or isolated.
Unfocused – Mediators’ imaginative, introspective nature doesn’t always lend itself to productivity. Many Mediators get frustrated by how difficult they find it to buckle down and get things done. The problem isn’t that they are incapable – rather, it’s that they run into problems when they become so caught up in different ideas and ideals that they fail to commit to a course of action.
Emotionally Vulnerable – The emotional attunement of these personalities is among their greatest strengths. But unless Mediators establish boundaries, they can be at risk of absorbing other people’s negative moods or attitudes.
Desperate to Please – Conflict tends to be stressful for Mediators, who yearn for harmony and acceptance. When someone dislikes or disapproves of them, these personalities may become fixated on trying to clear the air and change that person’s mind. Unfortunately, Mediators’ desire to please others can drain their energy, eclipsing their inner wisdom and their awareness of their own needs.
Self-Critical – Mediators believe in their unique potential, and they desperately want to live up to it. But this can cause them to have unrealistic expectations for themselves. When Mediators fail to live up to these visions, they may accuse themselves of being useless or selfish or woefully inadequate. Taken too far, this self-criticism can discourage Mediators, leading them to give up on even their dearest dreams.
Feeling self-critical right now? Before going to the next section, scroll up to reread your strengths – and let them serve as a reminder of how much you, dear Mediator, can bring to this world.Few personality types are as poetic and kindhearted as Mediators (INFPs). With their unique gifts, Mediators can overcome all sorts of challenges and obstacles – and brighten the lives of those around them in the process.

Mediators’ creativity, imagination, and kindness prove to be invaluable in many areas, including their own personal growth.
Yet Mediators can be tripped up in areas where idealism and altruism are more of a liability than an asset. When it comes to finding (or keeping) a partner, making friends, pursuing a meaningful career, or planning for the future, people with this personality type may need to consciously develop their weaker traits and gain new skills – even as they draw on their many strengths.The Secret Life of Mediators
What you have read so far is just an introduction into the complexity of the Mediator personality type. You may have muttered to yourself, “Wow, this is so accurate, it’s a little creepy,” or “Finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked, “How do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to do?”

This is not a trick. You felt understood because you were. We’ve studied how Mediators think and what they need to reach their full potential. In the process, we’ve learned how people with your personality type can overcome even their greatest personal challenges.

But to overcome these challenges, you need to have a plan, a personal road map – a vision for where you want to head and why. In this introduction, you’ve learned how Mediators tend to behave in certain circumstances and what their key strengths and weaknesses are.

Here’s the truth: knowing and accepting yourself is the first step to moving forward and making positive changes in your life.
Moving Forward
Now that you’ve learned the basics, the next step on your self-discovery journey is your Premium Profile. Filled with Mediator-specific guidance and advice for every area of your life, from your career to your relationships, your Premium Profile will empower you to understand what it really means to be a Mediator – what it really means to be you. If you’re ready to create your own path through life, move on to the next section.